releases: add release notes for v8.4.0 (#18829)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-8.4.0.md

Author: preview: https://pingcap-docsite-preview-git-v84-preview-oreoxmts-projects.vercel.app/tidb/dev/release-8.4.0

---
title: TiDB 8.4.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.4.0.
---

# TiDB 8.4.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.4.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/quick-start-with-tidb)

8.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

## Feature details

### Scalability

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Performance

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* 提升批量创建用户和修改用户密码操作的性能，提升达数百倍 [#55604](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/55604) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1941-->

    在 SaaS 场景下，存在批量创建大量用户、以及定期轮换所有用户密码的需求，且需要在指定时间窗口内完成，从 v8.4.0 开始，提升了批量创建用户、批量修改用户密码的性能，而且你可以通过增加会话连接数来提升并发，提升性能，大大缩短了该场景下的执行时间。
```

    Starting with v8.3.0, the global index feature is released as an experimental feature. You can explicitly create a global index for a partitioned table with the keyword `Global` to remove the restriction that the unique key must use every column in the table's partitioning expression, to meet flexible business needs. Global indexes also enhance the performance of queries that do not include partition keys.

    In v8.4.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).

    For more information, see [documentation](/partitioned-table.md#global-indexes).

* Optimize query performance for cached tables in some scenarios [#43249](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43249) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1965-->

>     Optimize query performance on cached tables by up to 5. 4 times when using `IndexLookup` to execute `SELECT ... LIMIT 1` with `IndexLookup`. Improve the performance of `IndexLookupReader` in full table scan and primary key query scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Optimize query performance on cached tables by up to 5.4 times when using `IndexLookup` to execute `SELECT ... LIMIT 1` with `IndexLookup`. Improve the performance of `IndexLookupReader` in full table scan and primary key query scenarios.
```

### Reliability

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* 超出预期的查询 (Runaway Queries) 支持切换资源组 [#54434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54434) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1832-->

    v8.4.0 新增支持将 Runaway Queries 切换到指定资源组。在降低优先级 (COOLDOWN) 仍旧无法有效降低资源消耗的情况下，你可以创建一个[资源组 (Resource Group)](/tidb-resource-control.md#管理资源组)，并通过配置参数 `SWITCH_GROUP` 指定将识别到的查询切换到该资源组中，会话的后续查询仍在原资源组中执行。切换资源组的行为能够更精确地限制资源使用，对 Runaway Queries 的资源消耗做更加严格的控制。

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-resource-control.md##query_limit-parameters).

```

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

* BR reduces requires storage permissions for restores [#55870](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55870) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1943-->

    Previously, when BR was restoring data, checkpoint information about the progress of the restore was recorded in the location hosting the backup data. These restore checkpoints enabled restoration to be quickly resumed if it was interrupted. With this feature, the restore checkpoints are now stored in the target TiDB cluster. This means that BR only requires read access to the backup dataset location for restores.

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).
  
* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Observability

> * Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)
> 
>     Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Display the CPU time of TiDB and TiKV in the system table [#55542](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55542) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1877-->

      The [Top SQL page](/dashboard/top-sql.md) of [TiDB Dashboard](/dashboard/dashboard-intro.md) displays SQL statements with high CPU consumption. Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB includes CPU time consumption data in the system table, alongside other session or SQL metrics, allowing you to easily monitor high CPU usage from multiple perspectives. This information is especially useful in identifying the root cause of issues such as CPU spikes or hotspots in cluster read/write operations.

    - [STATEMENTS_SUMMARY](/statement-summary-tables.md) adds `AVG_TIDB_CPU_TIME` and `AVG_TIKV_CPU_TIME` to show the average CPU time consumed by individual SQL statements historically.
    - [INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) adds `TIDB_CPU` and `TIKV_CPU` to display the cumulative CPU consumption of currently executing SQL statements in a session.
    - The [slow Log](/analyze-slow-queries.md) adds the `Tidb_cpu_time` and `Tikv_cpu_time` fields to show the CPU time of captured SQL statements.

  By default, TiKV CPU time is displayed. Collecting TiDB CPU time introduces an additional overhead (about 8%), so TiDB CPU time is only displayed as the actual value when the [Top SQL feature](https://github.com/dashboard/top-sql.md) is enabled; otherwise, it will always display as `0`.
  
    For more information, see [documentation](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) and [documentation](information-schema/information-schema-slow-query.md).
```

### Security

> * TiDB BR Supports AWS IMDSv2 [#16443](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16443) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1945-->
> 
>     TiDB BR now supports AWS's Instance Metadata Service Version 2 (IMDSv2) when deployed on AWS EC2. This enables users to configure the newer session-oriented method on their EC2 instances, and for BR to be able to successfully use the IAM Role associated with the instance to access AWS S3 with the appropriate privileges.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/backup-and-restore-storages#authentication).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* BR supports AWS IMDSv2 [#16443](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16443) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1945-->

    BR now supports AWS Instance Metadata Service Version 2 (IMDSv2) when deployed on AWS EC2. This allows you to configure the newer session-oriented method on EC2 instances, enabling BR to successfully use the instance's associated IAM role to access AWS S3 with the appropriate privileges.

    For more information, see [documentation](/backup-and-restore-storages#authentication).
```

    In previous versions of partitioned tables, some limitations exist because global indexes are not supported. For example, the unique key must use every column in the table's partitioning expression. If the query condition does not use the partitioning key, the query will scan all partitions, resulting in poor performance. Starting from v7.6.0, the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) is introduced to enable the global index feature. But this feature was under development at that time and it is not recommended to enable it.

    Starting with v8.3.0, the global index feature is released as an experimental feature. You can explicitly create a global index for a partitioned table with the keyword `Global` to remove the restriction that the unique key must use every column in the table's partitioning expression, to meet flexible business needs. Global indexes also enhance the performance of queries that do not include partition keys.

>     In v8.4.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In v8.4.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA). You can directly use the keyword `GLOBAL` to create a global index, instead of setting the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) to enable the global index feature.
```

* The following features are planned for removal in future versions:

    * Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in a future release.

## Improvements

+ TiDB

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Optimize MEMDB implementation to reduce write latency in transactions and TiDB CPU usage [#55287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55287) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1892-->

```

+ TiKV

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Region 的默认值由 96 MiB 提升到 256 MiB，避免 Region 数量过多导致额外开销 [#17309](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17309) [LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1925-->
- Raft Engine 新增 `spill-dir` 配置，增加了对于多盘存储 Raft 日志的支持，使得 Raft Engine 在主目录 `dir` 所在盘容量不足时能够自动将新增日志写入 `spill-dir`。[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1970-->
```

Reviewer 2: >  - Add a new `spill-dir` configuration to Raft Engine to support multi-disk storage for Raft logs.
- Introduce a new `spill-dir` configuration in Raft Engine to enable multi-disk storage for Raft logs.

---
title: TiDB 8.4.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.4.0.
---

# TiDB 8.4.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.4.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/quick-start-with-tidb)

8.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>分类</th>
    <th>功能/增强</th>
    <th>描述</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="5">可扩展性和性能</td>
    <td> 执行计划缓存在实例内共享（实验特性）<!-- tw@Oreoxmt 1569 --></td>
    <td> 实例级执行计划缓存支持在内存中缓存更多的执行计划，消除 SQL 编译时所消耗的时间，从而减少 SQL 的运行时间，提升 OLTP 系统的性能和吞吐。同时，也能更好的控制内存占用，提升数据库稳定性。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>分区表全局索引成为正式功能<!-- tw@hfxsd 1961 --></td>
    <td>全局索引可以有效提高检索非分区列的效率，并且消除了唯一键必须包含分区键的限制。该功能扩展了 TiDB 分区表的使用场景，避免了数据迁移过程中的一些应用修改工作。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> TiDB 并行获取 TSO<!-- tw@qiancai 1893 --></td>
    <td>在高并发场景下，并行获取 TSO 能够有效降低等待获取 TSO 的时间，提升集群的吞吐。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 提升管理类 SQL 的执行效率<!-- tw@hfxsd 1941 --></td>
    <td>在一部分 SaaS 系统中，存在批量创建大量用户，以及定期轮换所有用户密码的需求。TiDB 提升了创建和修改数据库用户的性能，保证操作能在期望的时间窗口。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 缓存表的查询性能提升<!-- tw@hfxsd 1965 --></td>
    <td>优化了缓存表索引扫描的查询性能，部分场景可提升 5.4 倍。在需要对小表进行高速查询的场景下，利用缓存表可大幅提升整体性能。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">稳定性与高可用</td>
    <td> Runaway Queries 支持更多触发条件，并能够切换资源组<!-- tw@hfxsd 1832 --></td>
    <td>Runaway Queries 为用户提供了有效的手段，降低突发的 SQL 性能问题对系统产生的影响。新版本中新增<CODE> Coprocessor 处理的 Key 的数量</CODE>和 <CODE>Request Unit</CODE> 作为识别条件，并可以将识别到的查询置入指定资源组，对 Runaway Queries 做更精确的识别与控制。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 支持为资源管控的后台任务设置资源使用上限<!-- tw@hfxsd 1909 --></td>
    <td>为资源管控的后台任务设置百分比上限，针对不同业务系统的需求，控制后台任务的消耗，从而将后台任务的消耗限制在一个很低的水平，保证在线业务的服务质量。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> TiProxy 流量捕捉和回放<!-- tw@Oreoxmt 1942 --></td>
    <td>在做集群升级、迁移、部署变化等重要变更之前，通过捕捉真实负载来验证目标集群的性能，确保变更的成功。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 统计信息收集自适应并发度<!-- tw@Oreoxmt 1739 --></td>
    <td>自动统计信息收集会根据节点规模和硬件规格自动决定采集并发度，提升统计信息收集效率，减少手工调优，保证集群性能稳定。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">SQL</td>
    <td> 外键成为正式功能<!-- tw@lilin90 1894 --></td>
    <td>支持 MySQL 兼容的外键约束，维护数据一致性，进一步提升了 TiDB 对 MySQL 的兼容能力。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 向量搜索功能（实验特性）<!-- tw@qiancai 1898 --></td>
    <td>加速向量搜索的性能，适用于检索增强生成（RAG）、语义搜索、推荐系统等应用类型。把 TiDB 应用场景扩展到 AI 和 大语言模型（LLM）领域。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">数据库管理和可观测性</td>
    <td> 持久化内存表到 Workload Repository（实验特性）<!-- tw@lilin90 1823 --></td>
    <td> 持久化内存表中的运行指标和状态信息，是观测性的重要增强，能极大提升过往问题诊断和追溯的效率，并为未来的自动化运维，提供了数据集支持。 围绕 Workload Repository 构建报告、诊断、推荐一体化的能力，会成为未来提升 TiDB 易用性的重要组成。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 在内存表中显示 TiKV 和 TiDB 的 CPU 时间<!-- tw@hfxsd 1877 --></td>
    <td>将 CPU 时间合入系统表中展示，与会话或 SQL 的其他指标并列，方便你从多角度对高 CPU 消耗的操作进行观测，提升诊断效率。尤其适用于诊断实例 CPU 飙升或集群读写热点等场景。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 支持对开启了 IMDSv2 服务的 TiKV 实例做备份<!-- tw@hfxsd 1945 --></td>
    <td><a href="https://aws.amazon.com/cn/blogs/security/get-the-full-benefits-of-imdsv2-and-disable-imdsv1-across-your-aws-infrastructure/">目前 AWS EC2 的默认元数据服务是 IMDSv2</a>。TiDB 支持从开启了 IMDSv2 的 TiKV 实例中备份数据，协助你更好地在公有云服务中运行 TiDB 集群。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">安全</td>
    <td> 备份数据加密成为正式功能<!-- tw@qiancai 1920 --></td>
    <td> 加密数据库备份是一种增强数据安全性的重要措施，既可以保护数据备份中敏感信息，又有助于合规，确保数据在存储和传输中的安全。</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

```

    - Eliminates redundancy, caching more execution plans with the same memory consumption.
    - Allocates a fixed-size memory on the instance, limiting memory usage more effectively.

    In v8.4.0, instance-level execution plan cache only supports caching query execution plans and is disabled by default. You can enable this feature using [`tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840) and set its maximum memory usage using [`tidb_instance_plan_cache_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_instance_plan_cache_max_size-new-in-v840). Before enabling this feature, disable [Prepared execution plan cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md) and [Non-prepared execution plan cache](/sql-non-prepared-plan-cache.md).

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840).

> * Partitioned tables support global indexes (GA) [#45133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45133) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust) @[L-maple](https://github.com/L-maple)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Partitioned tables support global indexes (GA) [#45133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45133) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust) @[L-maple](https://github.com/L-maple) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1961-->
```

>     In previous versions of partitioned tables, some limitations exist because global indexes are not supported. For example, the unique key must use every column in the table's partitioning expression. If the query condition does not use the partitioning key, the query will scan all partitions, resulting in poor performance. Starting from v7.6.0, the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) is introduced to enable the global index feature. But this feature was under development at that time and it is not recommended to enable it.

Reviewer 3: The tidb_enable_global_index is now also deprecated, and is always ON.
```suggestion
    In previous versions of partitioned tables, some limitations exist because global indexes are not supported. For example, the unique key must use every column in the table's partitioning expression. If the query condition does not use the partitioning key, the query will scan all partitions, resulting in poor performance. Starting from v7.6.0, the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) is introduced to enable the global index feature. But this feature was under development at that time and it is not recommended to enable it. From v8.4.0 this system variable is deprecated and always ON.
```

Reviewer: This sentence is duplicate with the one in L132. We can keep that one only.

    Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB and TiCDC introduce Checksum V2 to address issues with Checksum V1 in verifying old values in Update or Delete events after Add Column or Drop Column operations. For new clusters created in v8.4.0 or later, or clusters upgraded to v8.4.0, TiDB uses Checksum V2 by default when single-row data checksum verification is enabled. TiCDC supports handling both Checksum V1 and V2. This change only affects TiDB and TiCDC internal implementation and does not impact checksum calculation methods for downstream Kafka consumers.
  
    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc-integrity-check.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.3.0 to the current version (v8.4.0). If you are upgrading from v8.2.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

* Behavior change

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> |        |                              |      |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| tidb_enable_table_partition | Deprecated, always set to ON | Table partitioning has been GA since v5.1 and this experimental flag, if set to OFF, would cause create table with partitioning, just parse and ignore the partitioning clause. |
```

> |        |                              |      |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| tidb_enable_list_partition | Deprecated, always set to ON | List partitioning has been GA since v6.1 |
```

> |        |                              |      |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| tidb_enable_global_index | Deprecated, always set to ON | Global Index for partitioned tables is GA since v8.4.0, and needs explicit GLOBAL IndexOption to be used, so this system variable is no longer needed. |
```

    <td><a href="https://aws.amazon.com/cn/blogs/security/get-the-full-benefits-of-imdsv2-and-disable-imdsv1-across-your-aws-infrastructure/">AWS EC2 now uses IMDSv2 as the default metadata service</a>. TiDB supports data backups from TiKV instances with IMDSv2 enabled, enhancing your ability to run TiDB clusters in public cloud environments.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">安全</td>
    <td> 备份数据加密成为正式功能<!-- tw@qiancai 1920 --></td>
    <td> 加密数据库备份是一种增强数据安全性的重要措施，既可以保护数据备份中敏感信息，又有助于合规，确保数据在存储和传输中的安全。</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Performance

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

* 增加获取 TSO 的 RPC 模式，降低获取 TSO 的延迟 [#54960](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54960) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta) **tw@qiancai** <!--1893-->

    TiDB 在向 PD 请求 TSO 时，会将一段时间内的请求汇总起来并以同步的方式进行批处理，以减少 RPC (Remote Procedure Call) 请求数量从而降低 PD 负载。对于延迟敏感的场景，这种模式的性能并不理想。在 v8.4.0 中，TiDB 新增 TSO 请求的异步批处理模式，并提供不同的并发能力。异步模式可以降低获取 TSO 的延迟，但可能会增加 PD 的负载。你可以通过 [tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-从-v840-版本开始引入) 变量设定获取 TSO 的 RPC 模式。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-从-v840-版本开始引入)。

* 优化 TiDB Hash Join 算子的执行效率（实验特性） [#55153](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55153) [#53127](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53127) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12) **tw@qiancai** <!--1633-->

    在 v8.4.0 中，TiDB 对 Hash Join 算子的实现方法进行了优化，以提升其执行效率。目前，优化后的 Hash Join 实现方法为实验特性，仅对 Inner Join 和 Outer Join 类型的 Hash Join 生效，且默认关闭。你可以将变量 [tidb_hash_join_version](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-从-v840-版本开始引入) 设置为 `optimized` 开启该优化实现方法。开启后，TiDB 在执行 Inner Join 和 Outer Join 类型的 Hash Join 时，将使用优化后的实现方法。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-从-v840-版本开始引入)。

* 支持下推以下字符串函数到 TiKV [#17529](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17529) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@qiancai** <!--1716-->

    * `DATE_ADD()`
    * `DATE_SUB()`

  更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md)。

```

### Availability

* TiProxy supports traffic replay (experimental) [#642](https://github.com/pingcap/tiproxy/issues/642) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1942-->

    Starting from TiProxy v1.3.0, you can use TiProxy to capture access traffic in a TiDB production cluster and replay it in a test cluster at a specified rate. This feature enables you to reproduce actual workloads from the production cluster in a test environment, verifying SQL statement execution results and performance.

    Traffic replay is suitable for the following scenarios:

    - Validate TiDB version upgrades
    - Assess change impact
    - Validate performance before TiDB scaling
    - Test performance limits

    You can use `tiproxyctrl` to connect to the TiProxy instance and perform traffic capture and replay.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-traffic-replay.md).

### SQL

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

* 支持向量搜索功能（实验特性） [#54245](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54245) [#9032](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9032) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) **tw@qiancai** <!--1898-->

    向量搜索是一种基于数据语义的搜索方法，可以提供更相关的搜索结果。作为 AI 和大语言模型（LLM）的核心功能之一，向量搜索可用于检索增强生成（Retrieval-Augmented Generation, RAG）、语义搜索、推荐系统等多种场景。

    从 v8.4.0 开始，TiDB 支持[向量数据类型](vector-search-data-types.md)和[向量搜索索引](vector-search-index.md)，具备强大的向量搜索能力。TiDB 的向量数据类型最多可支持 16383 维度，并支持多种[距离函数](/vector-search-functions-and-operators.md#向量函数)，包括 L2 距离（欧式距离）、余弦距离、负内积和 L1 距离（曼哈顿距离）。

    在使用时，你只需要创建包含向量数据类型的表，并插入向量数据，即可执行向量搜索查询，也可进行向量数据与传统关系数据的混合查询。此外，你可以创建并利用向量搜索索引来提升向量搜索的性能。

    需要注意的是，TiDB 的向量搜索索引依赖于 TiFlash。因此，在使用向量搜索索引之前，需要确保 TiDB 集群中已部署 TiFlash 节点。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/vector-search-overview.md)。

```

    在 v8.4.0 之前，[TOP SQL](/dashboard/top-sql.md) 以 SQL 为单位来聚合 CPU 时间。如果 CPU 时间不是由少数几个 SQL 贡献，按 SQL 聚合并不能有效发现问题。从 v8.4.0 开始，你可以选择 **By TABLE** 或者 **By DB** 聚合 CPU 时间。在多系统融合的场景下，新的聚合方式能够更有效地识别来自某个特定系统的负载变化，提升问题诊断的效率。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/dashboard/top-sql.md)。

### Security

* BR supports AWS IMDSv2 [#16443](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16443) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1945-->

    BR now supports AWS Instance Metadata Service Version 2 (IMDSv2) when deployed on AWS EC2. This allows you to configure the newer session-oriented method on EC2 instances, enabling BR to successfully use the instance's associated IAM role to access AWS S3 with the appropriate privileges.

    For more information, see [documentation](/backup-and-restore-storages#authentication).

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Data migration

> * TiCDC Claim-Check supports sending only the `value` field of Kafka messages to external storage [#11396](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11396) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1919-->

Reviewer 5: LGTM

* The following features are planned for removal in future versions:

    * Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in a future release.

## Improvements

+ TiDB

>   - Optimize MEMDB implementation to reduce write latency in transactions and TiDB CPU usage [#55287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55287) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1892-->

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Optimize MEMDB implementation to reduce write latency in transactions and TiDB CPU usage [#55287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55287) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1892-->
   - 优化系统变量 `tidb_dml_type` 为 `"bulk"` 时 DML 语句的执行性能 [#50215](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50215) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw@qiancai** <!--1860-->
```

  - 为日志表 [`mysql.tidb_runaway_queries`](/mysql-schema/mysql-schema.md#runaway-queries-相关系统表) 增加写入控制，降低大量并发写入引发的开销 [#54434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54434) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp) <!--1908--> **tw@lilin90**

+ TiKV

  - Increase the default value of Region from 96 MiB to 256 MiB to avoid the extra overhead caused by too many Regions [#17309](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17309) [LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1925-->
  - Introduce a new `spill-dir` configuration in Raft Engine to support multi-disk storage for Raft logs. When the disk containing the home directory (`dir`) runs out of space, Raft Engine automatically writes new logs to `spill-dir`, ensuring continuous operation. [LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1970-->

+ PD

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

  -  在 TiDB Lightning 数据导入过程中，允许 PD 进行 `evict-leader` 调度，避免阻断 TiKV 节点的 offline 进程 [#issue号](链接) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@qiancai**  <!--1852-->  
  
```

+ TiFlash

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

        - 当集群的 `split-table` 和 `split-region-on-table` 配置项为默认值 `false` 时，BR 在恢复数据到该集群的过程中不会按照 table 分裂 Region，以提升恢复速度 [#53532](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53532) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) **tw@qiancai** <!--1914-->
        - 默认不支持使用 SQL 语句 `RESTORE` 全量恢复数据到非空集群 [#55087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55087) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1711-->

```

---
title: TiDB 8.4.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.4.0.
---

# TiDB 8.4.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.4.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/quick-start-with-tidb)

8.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="5">Scalability and Performance</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance</td>
```

    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840">Instance-level execution plan cache</a> (experimental)**tw@Oreoxmt 1569**</td>
    <td>Instance-level execution plan cache allows all sessions within the same TiDB instance to share the execution plan cache. It stores more execution plans in memory, eliminating SQL compilation time. This reduces SQL execution time, improves OLTP system performance and throughput, and provides better control over memory usage, enhancing database stability.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/partitioned-table#global-indexes">Global indexes for partitioned tables (GA)</a>**tw@hfxsd 1961**</td>

>     <td>Global indexes can effectively improve the efficiency of retrieving non-partitioned columns, and remove the restriction that a unique key must contain the partition key. This feature extends the usage scenarios of TiDB partitioned tables and avoids some of the application modification work that might be required for data migration.</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td>Global indexes can effectively improve the efficiency of retrieving non-partitioned columns, and remove the restriction that a unique key must contain the partition key. This feature extends the usage scenarios of TiDB partitioned tables, and avoids some of the application modification work required for data migration.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840">Concurrent TSO retrieval for TiDB</a>**tw@qiancai 1893**</td>
    <td>In high-concurrency scenarios, you can use this feature to reduce the wait time for obtaining TSO and improve the cluster throughput.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Improve query performance for cached tables**tw@hfxsd 1965**</td>

>     <td>Improve query performance for index scanning on cached tables, with improvements of up to 5.4 times in some scenarios. For high-speed queries on small tables, cached tables can significantly enhance overall performance.</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td>Improve query performance for index scanning on cached tables, with improvements of up to 5.4 times in some scenarios. For high-speed queries on small tables, using cached tables can significantly enhance overall performance.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Reliability and Availability</td>
    <td>Support more triggers for runaway queries, and support switching resource groups**tw@hfxsd 1832 tw@lilin90 1800**</td>
    <td>Runaway Queries offer an effective way to mitigate the impact of unexpected SQL performance issues on systems. TiDB v8.4.0 introduces the number of keys processed by the Coprocessor (<code>PROCESSED_KEYS</code>) and request units (<code>RU</code>) as identifying conditions, and puts identified queries into the specified resource group for more precise identification and control of runaway queries.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Support setting resource usage caps for background tasks for resource control **tw@hfxsd 1909**</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td>Support setting the maximum limit on resource usage for background tasks of resource control **tw@hfxsd 1909**</td>
```

>     <td>By setting a percentage cap on background tasks of resource control, you can manage their resource consumption based on the needs of different business systems. This ensures background tasks consume minimal resources, maintaining the service quality of online operations.</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td>By setting a maximum percentage limit on background tasks of resource control, you can control their resource consumption based on the needs of different application systems. This keeps background task consumption at a low level and ensures the quality of online services.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency-new-in-v840">Adaptive concurrency for statistics collection</a>**tw@Oreoxmt 1739**</td>
    <td>Automatic statistics collection determines the collection concurrency based on node scale and hardware specifications. This improves statistics collection efficiency, reduces manual tuning, and ensures stable cluster performance.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">SQL</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/vector-search-overview">Vector search (experimental)</a>**tw@qiancai 1898**</td>
    <td>Vector search is a search method based on data semantics, which provides more relevant search results. As one of the core functions of AI and large language models (LLMs), vector search can be used in various scenarios such as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), semantic search, and recommendation systems.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td>Display TiKV and TiDB CPU times in memory tables**tw@hfxsd 1877**</td>
>     <td>CPU times are now integrated into a system table and displayed alongside other session or SQL metrics, allowing for easier observation of operations with high CPU consumption from multiple perspectives, improving diagnostic efficiency. This is particularly useful for diagnosing instances with CPU spikes or read/write hotspots in the cluster.</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td>Display TiKV and TiDB CPU times in memory tables**tw@hfxsd 1877**</td>
    <td>The CPU time is now integrated into a system table, displayed alongside other metrics for sessions or SQL, letting you observe high CPU consumption operations from multiple perspectives, and improves diagnostic efficiency. This is especially useful for diagnosing scenarios such as CPU spikes in instances or read/write hotspots in clusters.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Support backing up TiKV instances with IMDSv2 service enabled**tw@hfxsd 1945**</td>

>     <td><a href="https://aws.amazon.com/cn/blogs/security/get-the-full-benefits-of-imdsv2-and-disable-imdsv1-across-your-aws-infrastructure/">AWS EC2 now uses IMDSv2 as the default metadata service</a>. TiDB supports data backups from TiKV instances with IMDSv2 enabled, enhancing your ability to run TiDB clusters in public cloud environments.</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://aws.amazon.com/cn/blogs/security/get-the-full-benefits-of-imdsv2-and-disable-imdsv1-across-your-aws-infrastructure/">AWS EC2 now uses IMDSv2 as the default metadata service</a>. TiDB supports backing up data from TiKV instances that have IMDSv2 enabled, helping you run TiDB clusters more effectively in public cloud services.</td>
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840).

* TiDB Lightning's logical import mode supports prepared statements and client statement cache [#54850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54850) @[dbsid](https://github.com/dbsid) **tw@lilin90** <!--1922-->

    By enabling the `logical-import-prep-stmt` configuration item, the SQL statements executed in TiDB Lightning's logical import mode will use prepared statements and client statement cache. This reduces the cost of TiDB SQL parsing and compilation, improves SQL execution efficiency, and increases the likelihood of hitting the execution plan cache, thereby speeding up logical import.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

* Partitioned tables support global indexes (GA) [#45133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45133) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust) @[L-maple](https://github.com/L-maple) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1961-->

>     In previous versions of partitioned tables, some limitations exist because global indexes are not supported. For example, the unique key must use every column in the table's partitioning expression. If the query condition does not use the partitioning key, the query will scan all partitions, resulting in poor performance. Starting from v7.6.0, the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) is introduced to enable the global index feature. But this feature was under development at that time and it is not recommended to enable it.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    In early TiDB versions, the partitioned table has some limitations because it does not support global indexes. For example, the unique key must use every column in the table's partition expression. If the query condition does not use the partition key, the query will scan all partitions, resulting in poor performance. Starting from v7.6.0, the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) is introduced to enable the global index feature. But this feature was under development at that time and it is not recommended to enable it.
```

>     Starting with v8.3.0, the global index feature is released as an experimental feature. You can explicitly create a global index for a partitioned table with the keyword `Global` to remove the restriction that the unique key must use every column in the table's partitioning expression, to meet flexible business needs. Global indexes also enhance the performance of queries that do not include partition keys.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.3.0, the global index feature is released as an experimental feature. You can explicitly create a global index for a partitioned table with the `GLOBAL` keyword. This removes the restriction that a unique key in a partitioned table must include all columns used in the partition expression, allowing for more flexible application requirements. Additionally, global indexes also improve the performance of queries based on non-partitioned columns.
```

    In v8.4.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA). You must use the keyword `GLOBAL` to create a global index, instead of setting the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) to enable the global index feature. From v8.4.0 this system variable is deprecated and is always `ON`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/partitioned-table.md#global-indexes).

> * Optimize query performance for cached tables in some scenarios [#43249](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43249) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1965-->
> 
>     Optimize the query performance of cached tables by up to 5.4 times when using `IndexLookup` to execute `SELECT ... LIMIT 1` with `IndexLookup`. Improve the performance of `IndexLookupReader` in full table scan and primary key query scenarios.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Improve query performance for cached tables in some scenarios [#43249](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43249) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1965-->

    In v8.4.0, TiDB improves the query performance of cached tables by up to 5.4 times when executing `SELECT ... LIMIT 1` with `IndexLookup`. In addition, TiDB improves the performance of `IndexLookupReader` in full table scan and primary key query scenarios.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

* Runaway queries support the number of processed keys and request units as thresholds [#54434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54434) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp) **tw@lilin90** <!--1800-->

    Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB can identify runaway queries based on the number of processed keys (`PROCESSED_KEYS`) and request units (`RU`). Compared with execution time (`EXEC_ELAPSED`), these new thresholds more accurately define the resource consumption of queries, avoiding identification bias when overall performance decreases.

    You can set multiple conditions simultaneously, and a query is identified as a runaway query if any condition is met.

    You can observe the corresponding fields (`RESOURCE_GROUP`, `MAX_REQUEST_UNIT_WRITE`, `MAX_REQUEST_UNIT_READ`, `MAX_PROCESSED_KEYS`) in the [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md) to determine the condition values based on historical execution.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-resource-control.md#manage-queries-that-consume-more-resources-than-expected-runaway-queries).

> * Support runaway queries to switch resource groups [#54434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54434) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1832-->
> 
>     In TiDB v8.4.0, you can redirect runaway queries to a specific resource group. If the `COOLDOWN` mechanism fails to lower resource consumption, you can create a [resource group](/tidb-resource-control.md#create-a-resource-group) and set the `SWITCH_GROUP` parameter to move identified runaway queries to this group. Meanwhile, subsequent queries within the same session will continue to execute in the original resource group. By switching resource groups, you can more precisely manage resource usage and better control the impact of runaway queries.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Support switching resource groups for runaway queries [#54434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54434) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1832-->

    Starting from TiDB v8.4.0, you can switch the resource group of runaway queries to a specific one. If the `COOLDOWN` mechanism fails to lower resource consumption, you can create a [resource group](/tidb-resource-control.md#create-a-resource-group) and set the `SWITCH_GROUP` parameter to move identified runaway queries to this group. Meanwhile, subsequent queries within the same session will continue to execute in the original resource group. By switching resource groups, you can manage resource usage more precisely, and control the resource consumption more strictly.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-resource-control.md#query_limit-parameters).

> * The system variable `tidb_scatter_region` supports the cluster-level Region scattering strategy [#55184](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55184) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1927-->

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Support setting the cluster-level Region scattering strategy using the `tidb_scatter_region` system variable [#55184](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55184) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1927-->
```

>     In previous versions, the system variable `tidb_scatter_region` can only be enabled or disabled. When enabled, it applies a table-level scattering strategy during batch table creation. However, when creating hundreds of thousands of tables in a batch, this approach results in a concentration of regions on a few TiKV nodes, causing out-of-memory (OOM) issues on those nodes.
> 
>     To address this, starting from v8.4.0, `tidb_scatter_region` is changed to a string type. It now supports a cluster-level scattering strategy, helping scatter regions more evenly and preventing OOM problems on TiKV nodes.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    Before v8.4.0, the `tidb_scatter_region` system variable can only be enabled or disabled. When it is enabled, TiDB applies a table-level scattering strategy during batch table creation. However, when creating hundreds of thousands of tables in a batch, this strategy results in a concentration of Regions in a few TiKV nodes, causing OOM (Out of Memory) issues in those nodes.

    Starting from v8.4.0, `tidb_scatter_region` is changed to the string type. It now supports a cluster-level scattering strategy, which can help avoid TiKV OOM issues in the preceding scenario.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_scatter_region).

> * Support setting resource caps for background tasks of resource control [#56019](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56019) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1909-->

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Support setting the maximum limit on resource usage for background tasks of resource control [#56019](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56019) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1909-->
```

    - Adjusting the default priority scheduling strategy. When tasks of different priorities run simultaneously, high-priority tasks receive more resources.

### Availability

* TiProxy supports traffic replay (experimental) [#642](https://github.com/pingcap/tiproxy/issues/642) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1942-->

    Starting from TiProxy v1.3.0, you can use TiProxy to capture access traffic in a TiDB production cluster and replay it in a test cluster at a specified rate. This feature enables you to reproduce actual workloads from the production cluster in a test environment, verifying SQL statement execution results and performance.

    Traffic replay is suitable for the following scenarios:

    - Validate TiDB version upgrades
    - Assess change impact
    - Validate performance before TiDB scaling
    - Test performance limits

    You can use `tiproxyctrl` to connect to the TiProxy instance and perform traffic capture and replay.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-traffic-replay.md).

### SQL

> * Support vector search (experimental) [#54245](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54245) [#9032](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9032) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) **tw@qiancai** <!--1898-->

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Support vector search (experimental) [#54245](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54245) [#9032](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9032) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) **tw@qiancai** <!--1898-->
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Support setting the maximum limit on resource usage for background tasks of resource control **tw@hfxsd 1909**</td>
    <td>By setting a maximum percentage limit on background tasks of resource control, you can control their resource consumption based on the needs of different application systems. This keeps background task consumption at a low level and ensures the quality of online services.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/tiproxy-traffic-replay">TiProxy supports traffic capture and replay</a> (experimental)**tw@Oreoxmt 1942**</td>
    <td>Use TiProxy to capture real workloads from TiDB production clusters before major operations like cluster upgrades, migrations, or deployment changes. Replay these workloads on target test clusters to validate performance and ensure successful changes.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency-new-in-v840">Adaptive concurrency for statistics collection</a>**tw@Oreoxmt 1739**</td>
>     <td>Automatic statistics collection determines the collection concurrency based on node scale and hardware specifications. This improves statistics collection efficiency, reduces manual tuning, and ensures stable cluster performance.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency-new-in-v840">Concurrent automatic statistics collection</a>**tw@Oreoxmt 1739**</td>
    <td>You can set the concurrency within a single automatic statistics collection task using the system variable <code>tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency</code>. TiDB automatically determines the concurrency of scanning tasks based on node scale and hardware specifications. This improves statistics collection efficiency by fully utilizing system resources, reduces manual tuning, and ensures stable cluster performance.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">SQL</td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/vector-search-overview">Vector search (experimental)</a>**tw@qiancai 1898**</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/vector-search-overview">Vector search</a> (experimental) **tw@qiancai 1898**</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Support viewing aggregated TiKV CPU time by table or database **tw@lilin90 1878**</td>
    <td>When hotspot issues are not caused by individual SQL statements, using the aggregated CPU time by table or database level in <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.4/top-sql">TOP SQL</a> can help you quickly identify the tables or applications responsible for the hotspots, significantly improving the efficiency of diagnosing hotspot and CPU consumption issues.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Support backing up TiKV instances with IMDSv2 service enabled**tw@hfxsd 1945**</td>
    <td><a href="https://aws.amazon.com/cn/blogs/security/get-the-full-benefits-of-imdsv2-and-disable-imdsv1-across-your-aws-infrastructure/">AWS EC2 now uses IMDSv2 as the default metadata service</a>. TiDB supports backing up data from TiKV instances that have IMDSv2 enabled, helping you run TiDB clusters more effectively in public cloud services.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">Security</td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/br-pitr-manual#encrypt-log-backup-data">Client-side encryption of log backup data</a>**tw@qiancai 1920**</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/br-pitr-manual#encrypt-log-backup-data">Client-side encryption of log backup data</a> (experimental) **tw@qiancai 1920**</td>
```

    In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces an asynchronous batching mode for TSO requests,  which provides various levels of concurrency. This asynchronous mode can reduce the latency for obtaining a TSO but might increase PD workload. To set the RPC mode for obtaining TSO, you can configure the [tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840) system variable.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840).

* Optimize the execution efficiency of the hash join operator for TiDB (experimental) [#55153](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55153) [#53127](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53127) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12) **tw@qiancai** <!--1633-->

>     In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces an optimized version of the hash join operator to improve its execution efficiency. Currently, the optimized version of the hash join applies only to inner join and outer join operations and is disabled by default. To enable this optimized version, configure the [tidb_hash_join_version](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840) system variable to `optimized`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces an optimized version of the hash join operator to improve its execution efficiency. Currently, the optimized version of the hash join applies only to inner join and outer join operations and is disabled by default. To enable this optimized version, configure the [`tidb_hash_join_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840) system variable to `optimized`.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840).

> * Support pushing down the following string functions to TiKV [#17529](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17529) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@qiancai** <!--1716-->
> 
>     * `DATE_ADD()`
>     * `DATE_SUB()`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Support pushing down the following date functions to TiKV [#17529](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17529) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@qiancai** <!--1716-->

    * `DATE_ADD()`
    * `DATE_SUB()`
    * `ADDDATE()`
    * `SUBDATE()`
```

    Traffic replay is suitable for the following scenarios:

    - Validate TiDB version upgrades
    - Assess change impact
    - Validate performance before TiDB scaling
    - Test performance limits

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-traffic-replay.md).

### SQL

* Support vector search (experimental) [#54245](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54245) [#9032](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9032) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898) **tw@qiancai** <!--1898-->

    Vector search is a search method based on data semantics, which provides more relevant search results. As one of the core functions of AI and large language models (LLMs), vector search can be used in various scenarios such as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), semantic search, and recommendation systems.

>     Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB supports [vector data types](vector-search-data-types.md) and [vector search indexes](vector-search-index.md), offering powerful vector search capabilities. TiDB vector data types support up to 16,383 dimensions and support various [distance functions](/vector-search-functions-and-operators.md#vector-functions), including L2 distance (Euclidean distance), cosine distance, negative inner product, and L1 distance (Manhattan distance).

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB supports [vector data types](/vector-search-data-types.md) and [vector search indexes](/vector-search-index.md), offering powerful vector search capabilities. TiDB vector data types support up to 16,383 dimensions and support various [distance functions](/vector-search-functions-and-operators.md#vector-functions), including L2 distance (Euclidean distance), cosine distance, negative inner product, and L1 distance (Manhattan distance).
```

    To start vector search, you only need to create a table with vector data types, insert vector data, and then perform a query of vector data. You can also perform mixed queries of vector data and traditional relational data.

>     To enhance the performance of vector search, you can create and use [vector search indexes](vector-search-index.md). Note that TiDB vector search indexes rely on TiFlash. Therefore, before using vector search indexes, make sure that TiFlash nodes are deployed in your TiDB cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
    To enhance the performance of vector search, you can create and use [vector search indexes](/vector-search-index.md). Note that TiDB vector search indexes rely on TiFlash. Before using vector search indexes, make sure that TiFlash nodes are deployed in your TiDB cluster.
```

* Support the `gb18030` character set and the `gb18030_bin` and `gb18030_chinese_ci` collations [#17470](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17470) [#55791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55791) @[cbcwestwolf](https://github.com/cbcwestwolf) **tw@lilin90** <!--1962-->

    Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB supports the `gb18030` character set to ensure that TiDB can better handle Chinese-related data storage and query requirements. This character set is a standard widely used for Chinese character encoding.

    Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB supports the `gb18030_bin` and `gb18030_chinese_ci` collations. `gb18030_bin` provides precise binary sorting, while `gb18030_chinese_ci` supports case-insensitive general sorting. These two collations make sorting and comparison of `gb18030` encoded text more flexible and efficient.

    By supporting the `gb18030` character set and its collations, TiDB v8.4.0 enhances compatibility with Chinese scenarios. In scenarios involving multiple languages and character encodings, you can select and operate on character sets with better user experience.

    For more information, see [documentation](/character-set-gb18030.md).

### DB operations

> * BR supports client-side encryption of log backup data (experimental) [55834](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55834) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) **tw@qiancai** <!--1920-->

Author: ```suggestion
* BR supports client-side encryption of log backup data (experimental) [#55834](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55834) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) **tw@qiancai** <!--1920-->
```

    - Add write control to the [`mysql.tidb_runaway_queries`](/mysql-schema/mysql-schema.md#system-tables-related-to-runaway-queries) log table to reduce overhead caused by a large number of concurrent writes [#54434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54434) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp) <!--1908--> **tw@lilin90**
    - Spport Index Join by default when the inner table has `Selection`, `Projection` or `Aggregation` operators on it [#47233](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47233) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1709-->
    - Reduce the number of column details fetched from TiKV for `DELETE` operations in certain scenarios, lowering the resource overhead of these operations [#38911](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38911) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1798-->
    - Improve the efficiency of the priority queue for automatic statistics collection tasks [#49972](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49972) @[Rustin170506](https://github.com/Rustin170506) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1935-->

>     - Improve automatic statistics collection by determining the collection concurrency based on node scale and hardware specifications [#53460](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53460) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1739-->

Author: ```suggestion
    - Support setting the concurrency within a single automatic statistics collection task using the system variable `tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency` [#53460](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53460) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1739-->
```

    Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB supports [vector data types](/vector-search-data-types.md) and [vector search indexes](/vector-search-index.md), offering powerful vector search capabilities. TiDB vector data types support up to 16,383 dimensions and support various [distance functions](/vector-search-functions-and-operators.md#vector-functions), including L2 distance (Euclidean distance), cosine distance, negative inner product, and L1 distance (Manhattan distance).

    To start vector search, you only need to create a table with vector data types, insert vector data, and then perform a query of vector data. You can also perform mixed queries of vector data and traditional relational data.

    To enhance the performance of vector search, you can create and use [vector search indexes](vector-search-index.md). Note that TiDB vector search indexes rely on TiFlash. Before using vector search indexes, make sure that TiFlash nodes are deployed in your TiDB cluster.

    For more information, see [documentation](/vector-search-overview.md).

> * Support the `gb18030` character set and the `gb18030_bin` and `gb18030_chinese_ci` collations [#17470](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17470) [#55791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55791) @[cbcwestwolf](https://github.com/cbcwestwolf) **tw@lilin90** <!--1962-->
> 
>     Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB supports the `gb18030` character set to ensure that TiDB can better handle Chinese-related data storage and query requirements. This character set is a standard widely used for Chinese character encoding.
> 
>     Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB supports the `gb18030_bin` and `gb18030_chinese_ci` collations. `gb18030_bin` provides precise binary sorting, while `gb18030_chinese_ci` supports case-insensitive general sorting. These two collations make sorting and comparison of `gb18030` encoded text more flexible and efficient.
> 
>     By supporting the `gb18030` character set and its collations, TiDB v8.4.0 enhances compatibility with Chinese scenarios. In scenarios involving multiple languages and character encodings, you can select and operate on character sets with better user experience.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/character-set-gb18030.md).
> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Data migration

* TiCDC Claim-Check supports sending only the `value` field of Kafka messages to external storage [#11396](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11396) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1919-->

    Before v8.4.0, when the Claim-Check feature is enabled (by setting `large-message-handle-option` to `claim-check`), TiCDC encodes and stores both the `key` and `value` fields in the external storage system when handling large messages.

    Starting from v8.4.0, TiCDC supports sending only the `value` field of Kafka messages to external storage. This feature is only applicable to non-Open Protocol protocols. You can control this feature by setting the `claim-check-raw-value` parameter.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#send-the-value-field-to-external-storage-only).

> * TiCDC introduces Checksum V2 to verify old values after Add Column or Drop Column operations [#10969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10969) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1917-->

Author: ```suggestion
* TiCDC introduces Checksum V2 to verify old values in Update or Delete events [#10969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10969) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1917-->
```

    - Adjusting the default priority scheduling strategy. When tasks of different priorities run simultaneously, high-priority tasks receive more resources.

### Availability

* TiProxy supports traffic replay (experimental) [#642](https://github.com/pingcap/tiproxy/issues/642) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1942-->

    Starting from TiProxy v1.3.0, you can use TiProxy to capture access traffic in a TiDB production cluster and replay it in a test cluster at a specified rate. This feature enables you to reproduce actual workloads from the production cluster in a test environment, verifying SQL statement execution results and performance.

    Traffic replay is suitable for the following scenarios:

    - Validate TiDB version upgrades
    - Assess change impact
    - Validate performance before TiDB scaling
    - Test performance limits

    You can use `tiproxyctrl` to connect to the TiProxy instance and perform traffic capture and replay.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-traffic-replay.md).

### SQL

> * Support vector search (experimental) [#54245](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54245) [#9032](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9032) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) **tw@qiancai** <!--1898-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Support vector search (experimental) [#54245](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54245) [#9032](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9032) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898) **tw@qiancai** <!--1898-->
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>Display TiKV and TiDB CPU times in memory tables**tw@hfxsd 1877**</td>
    <td>CPU times are now integrated into a system table and displayed alongside other session or SQL metrics, allowing for easier observation of operations with high CPU consumption from multiple perspectives, improving diagnostic efficiency. This is particularly useful for diagnosing instances with CPU spikes or read/write hotspots in the cluster.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Support backing up TiKV instances with IMDSv2 service enabled**tw@hfxsd 1945**</td>
    <td><a href="https://aws.amazon.com/cn/blogs/security/get-the-full-benefits-of-imdsv2-and-disable-imdsv1-across-your-aws-infrastructure/">AWS EC2 now uses IMDSv2 as the default metadata service</a>. TiDB supports data backups from TiKV instances with IMDSv2 enabled, enhancing your ability to run TiDB clusters in public cloud environments.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">Security</td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/br-pitr-manual#encrypt-log-backup-data">Client-side encryption of log backups</a>**tw@qiancai 1920**</td>
>     <td>Before uploading a log backup to your backup storage, you can encrypt the backup data to ensure its security during storage and transmission.</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/br-pitr-manual#encrypt-log-backup-data">Client-side encryption of log backup data</a>**tw@qiancai 1920**</td>
    <td>Before uploading log backup data to your backup storage, you can encrypt the backup data to ensure its security during storage and transmission.</td>
```

    In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces an asynchronous batching mode for TSO requests,  which provides various levels of concurrency. This asynchronous mode can reduce the latency for obtaining a TSO but might increase PD workload. To set the RPC mode for obtaining TSO, you can configure the [tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840) system variable.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840).

* Optimize the execution efficiency of the hash join operator for TiDB (experimental) [#55153](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55153) [#53127](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53127) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12) **tw@qiancai** <!--1633-->

>     In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces an optimized implementation of the hash join operator to improve its execution efficiency. Currently, this optimized implementation of hash join applies only to inner join and outer join operations and is disabled by default. To enable this optimized implementation, configure the [tidb_hash_join_version](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840) system variable to `optimized`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces an optimized version of the hash join operator to improve its execution efficiency. Currently, the optimized version of the hash join applies only to inner join and outer join operations and is disabled by default. To enable this optimized version, configure the [tidb_hash_join_version](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840) system variable to `optimized`.
```

    Vector search is a search method based on data semantics, which provides more relevant search results. As one of the core functions of AI and large language models (LLMs), vector search can be used in various scenarios such as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), semantic search, and recommendation systems.

    Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB supports [vector data types](vector-search-data-types.md) and [vector search indexes](vector-search-index.md), offering powerful vector search capabilities. TiDB vector data types support up to 16,383 dimensions and support various [distance functions](/vector-search-functions-and-operators.md#vector-functions), including L2 distance (Euclidean distance), cosine distance, negative inner product, and L1 distance (Manhattan distance).

    To start vector search, you only need to create a table with vector data types, insert vector data, and then perform a query of vector data. You can also perform mixed queries of vector data and traditional relational data.

>     To enhance the performance of vector search, you can create and use [vector search indexes](vector-search-index.md). Note that TiDB vector search indexes rely on TiFlash. Therefore, before using vector search indexes, make sure that TiFlash nodes are deployed in your TiDB cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    To enhance the performance of vector search, you can create and use [vector search indexes](vector-search-index.md). Note that TiDB vector search indexes rely on TiFlash. Before using vector search indexes, make sure that TiFlash nodes are deployed in your TiDB cluster.
```

* Support the `gb18030` character set and the `gb18030_bin` and `gb18030_chinese_ci` collations [#17470](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17470) [#55791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55791) @[cbcwestwolf](https://github.com/cbcwestwolf) **tw@lilin90** <!--1962-->

    Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB supports the `gb18030` character set to ensure that TiDB can better handle Chinese-related data storage and query requirements. This character set is a standard widely used for Chinese character encoding.

    Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB supports the `gb18030_bin` and `gb18030_chinese_ci` collations. `gb18030_bin` provides precise binary sorting, while `gb18030_chinese_ci` supports case-insensitive general sorting. These two collations make sorting and comparison of `gb18030` encoded text more flexible and efficient.

    By supporting the `gb18030` character set and its collations, TiDB v8.4.0 enhances compatibility with Chinese scenarios. In scenarios involving multiple languages and character encodings, you can select and operate on character sets with better user experience.

    For more information, see [documentation](/character-set-gb18030.md).

### DB operations

> * BR supports client-side encryption of log backups (experimental) [55834](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55834) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) **tw@qiancai** <!--1920-->
> 
>      In earlier TiDB versions, only snapshot backups can be encrypted on the client side. Starting from v8.4.0, log backups can also be encrypted on the client side. Before uploading a log backup to your backup storage, you can encrypt the backup data to ensure its security via one of the following methods:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* BR supports client-side encryption of log backup data (experimental) [55834](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55834) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) **tw@qiancai** <!--1920-->

     In earlier TiDB versions, only snapshot backup data can be encrypted on the client side. Starting from v8.4.0, log backup data can also be encrypted on the client side. Before uploading log backup data to your backup storage, you can encrypt the backup data to ensure its security via one of the following methods:
```

    - Encrypt using a custom fixed key

>     - Encrypt using the main key from the local disk
>     - Encrypt using the main key from a Key Management Service (KMS)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Encrypt using a master key from the local disk
    - Encrypt using a master key from a Key Management Service (KMS)
```

    <td>Instance-level execution plan cache allows all sessions within the same TiDB instance to share the execution plan cache. It stores more execution plans in memory, eliminating SQL compilation time. This reduces SQL execution time, improves OLTP system performance and throughput, and provides better control over memory usage, enhancing database stability.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/partitioned-table#global-indexes">Global indexes for partitioned tables (GA)</a>**tw@hfxsd 1961**</td>
    <td>Global indexes can effectively improve the efficiency of retrieving non-partitioned columns, and remove the restriction that a unique key must contain the partition key. This feature extends the usage scenarios of TiDB partitioned tables and avoids some of the application modification work that might be required for data migration.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiDB 并行获取 TSO**tw@qiancai 1893**</td>
    <td>在高并发场景下，并行获取 TSO 能够有效降低等待获取 TSO 的时间，提升集群的吞吐。</td>
  </tr>

>   <tr>
>     <td>Improve the execution efficiency of administrative SQL statements**tw@hfxsd 1941**</td>
>     <td>In some SaaS systems, there is a need to create users in batch and rotate passwords regularly. TiDB enhances the performance of creating and modifying database users, ensuring these operations can be completed within the desired time window.</td>
>   </tr>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces an optimized implementation of the hash join operator to improve its execution efficiency. Currently, this optimized implementation is experimental, disabled by default, and applies only to inner join and outer join operations. To enable this optimized method, configure the [tidb_hash_join_version](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840) system variable to `optimized`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840).

* Support pushing down the following string functions to TiKV [#17529](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17529) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@qiancai** <!--1716-->

    * `DATE_ADD()`
    * `DATE_SUB()`

  For more information, see [documentation](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md).

> 
> * The performance of batch user creation and password changes has been improved by hundreds of times [#55604](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/55604) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1941-->
> 
>     In SaaS scenarios, you might need to batch-create a large number of users, rotate passwords periodically, and complete these tasks within a specific time window. Starting from v8.4.0, the performance of batch user creation and password rotation has been significantly improved. Additionally, you can further enhance performance by increasing concurrency through a higher number of session connections, which greatly reduces execution time for these operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    - Eliminates redundancy, caching more execution plans with the same memory consumption.
    - Allocates a fixed-size memory on the instance, limiting memory usage more effectively.

    In v8.4.0, instance-level execution plan cache only supports caching query execution plans and is disabled by default. You can enable this feature using [`tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840) and set its maximum memory usage using [`tidb_instance_plan_cache_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_instance_plan_cache_max_size-new-in-v840). Before enabling this feature, disable [Prepared execution plan cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md) and [Non-prepared execution plan cache](/sql-non-prepared-plan-cache.md).

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840).

* TiDB Lightning's logical import mode supports prepared statements and client statement cache [#54850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54850) @[dbsid](https://github.com/dbsid) **tw@lilin90** <!--1922-->

>     By enabling the `logical-import-prep-stmt` configuration item, the SQL statements generated by TiDB Lightning's logical import mode will use prepared statements and client statement cache. This reduces the cost of TiDB SQL parsing and compilation, improves SQL execution efficiency, and increases the likelihood of hitting the execution plan cache, thereby speeding up logical import.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    By enabling the `logical-import-prep-stmt` configuration item, the SQL statements executed in TiDB Lightning's logical import mode will use prepared statements and client statement cache. This reduces the cost of TiDB SQL parsing and compilation, improves SQL execution efficiency, and increases the likelihood of hitting the execution plan cache, thereby speeding up logical import.
```

    In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces an asynchronous batching mode for TSO requests,  which provides various levels of concurrency. This asynchronous mode can reduce the latency for obtaining a TSO but might increase PD workload. To set the RPC mode for obtaining TSO, you can configure the [tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840) system variable.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840).

* Optimize the execution efficiency of the hash join operator for TiDB (experimental) [#55153](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55153) [#53127](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53127) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12) **tw@qiancai** <!--1633-->

>     In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces an optimized implementation of the hash join operator to improve its execution efficiency. Currently, this optimized implementation is experimental, disabled by default, and applies only to inner join and outer join operations. To enable this optimized method, configure the [tidb_hash_join_version](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840) system variable to `optimized`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces an optimized implementation of the hash join operator to improve its execution efficiency. Currently, this optimized implementation is disabled by default and applies only to inner join and outer join operations. To enable this optimized method, configure the [tidb_hash_join_version](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840) system variable to `optimized`.
```

    Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB supports [vector data types](vector-search-data-types.md) and [vector search indexes](vector-search-index.md), offering powerful vector search capabilities. TiDB vector data types support up to 16,383 dimensions and support various [distance functions](/vector-search-functions-and-operators.md#vector-functions), including L2 distance (Euclidean distance), cosine distance, negative inner product, and L1 distance (Manhattan distance).

    To start vector search, you only need to create a table with vector data types, insert vector data, and then perform a query of vector data. You can also perform mixed queries of vector data and traditional relational data.

    To enhance the performance of vector search, you can create and use [vector search indexes](vector-search-index.md). Note that TiDB vector search indexes rely on TiFlash. Therefore, before using vector search indexes, make sure that TiFlash nodes are deployed in your TiDB cluster.

    For more information, see [documentation](/vector-search-overview.md).

> * The TiDB foreign key feature becomes generally available (GA) [#55861](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55861) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) **tw@lilin90** <!--1894-->
> 
>     Starting from v6.6.0, TiDB supports foreign key constraints using the system variable [`foreign_key_checks`](/system-variables.md#foreign_key_checks), but it has been an experimental feature. In v8.4.0, the foreign key feature has been extensively tested in more scenarios to improve stability and performance. Therefore, starting from v8.4.0, the foreign key feature becomes generally available (GA).
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/foreign-key.md).
> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

    - [STATEMENTS_SUMMARY](/statement-summary-tables.md) adds `AVG_TIDB_CPU_TIME` and `AVG_TIKV_CPU_TIME` to show the average CPU time consumed by individual SQL statements historically.
    - [INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) adds `TIDB_CPU` and `TIKV_CPU` to display the cumulative CPU consumption of currently executing SQL statements in a session.
    - The [slow Log](/analyze-slow-queries.md) adds the `Tidb_cpu_time` and `Tikv_cpu_time` fields to show the CPU time of captured SQL statements.

  By default, TiKV CPU time is displayed. Collecting TiDB CPU time introduces an additional overhead (about 8%), so TiDB CPU time is only displayed as the actual value when the [Top SQL feature](https://github.com/dashboard/top-sql.md) is enabled; otherwise, it will always display as `0`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) and [documentation](information-schema/information-schema-slow-query.md).

> * Top SQL supports viewing aggregated results by table or database [#55540](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55540) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) **tw@lilin90** <!--1878-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Top SQL supports viewing aggregated CPU time results by table or database [#55540](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55540) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) **tw@lilin90** <!--1878-->
```

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| tidb_enable_table_partition | Deprecated | Always set to `ON`. Table partitioning has been GA since v5.1 and this experimental flag, if set to `OFF`, would cause create table with partitioning, just parse and ignore the partitioning clause. |
| tidb_enable_list_partition | Deprecated | Always set to ON. List partitioning has been GA since v6.1 |
| tidb_enable_global_index | Deprecated | Always set to `ON`. Global Index for partitioned tables is GA since v8.4.0, and needs explicit `GLOBAL` IndexOption to be used, so this system variable is no longer needed. |
|        |                              |      |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
|          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |

### System tables

## Offline package changes

## Deprecated features

* The following features are removed starting from v8.4.0:

>     * TiDB Binlog replication is now removed from this version. Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB Binlog was fully deprecated. For incremental data replication, use [TiCDC](/ticdc-overview.md) instead. For point-in-time recovery (PITR), use [PITR](/br-pitr-guide.md). **tw@lilin90** <!--1946-->

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    * In v8.4.0, [TiDB Binlog](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/tidb-binlog-overview) is removed. Starting from v8.3.0, TiDB Binlog is fully deprecated. For incremental data replication, use [TiCDC](/ticdc-overview.md) instead. For point-in-time recovery (PITR), use [PITR](/br-pitr-guide.md). Before you upgrade your TiDB cluster to v8.4.0 or later versions, be sure to switch to TiCDC and PITR. **tw@lilin90** <!--1946-->
```

    - Support using [Optimizer Fix Control 47400](/optimizer-fix-controls.md#47400-new-in-v840) to control whether the optimizer limits the minimum value estimated for `estRows` to `1`, which is consistent with databases such as Oracle and DB2 [#47400](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47400) @[terry1purcell](https://github.com/terry1purcell) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1929-->
    - Add write control to the [`mysql.tidb_runaway_queries`](/mysql-schema/mysql-schema.md#system-tables-related-to-runaway-queries) log table to reduce overhead caused by a large number of concurrent writes [#54434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54434) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp) <!--1908--> **tw@lilin90**
    - Spport Index Join by default when the inner table has `Selection` or `Projection` operators on it [#issue号](链接) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1709-->
    - Reduce the number of column details fetched from TiKV for `DELETE` operations in certain scenarios, lowering the resource overhead of these operations [#38911](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38911) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1798-->

>     - Improve the efficiency of the priority queue for automatic statistics collection tasks [#49972](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49972) @[Rustin170506](https://github.com/Rustin170506) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1935-->

Author: ```suggestion
```

>     - Improve automatic statistics collection by determining the collection concurrency based on node scale and hardware specifications [#issue号](链接) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1739-->

Author: ```suggestion
    - Improve automatic statistics collection by determining the collection concurrency based on node scale and hardware specifications [#53460](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53460) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1739-->
```

    <td rowspan="1">SQL</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/vector-search-overview">Vector search</a> (experimental)</td>
    <td>Vector search is a search method based on data semantics, which provides more relevant search results. As one of the core functions of AI and large language models (LLMs), vector search can be used in various scenarios such as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), semantic search, and recommendation systems.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/information-schema-processlist">Display TiKV and TiDB CPU times in memory tables</a></td>
    <td>The CPU time is now integrated into a system table, displayed alongside other metrics for sessions or SQL, letting you observe high CPU consumption operations from multiple perspectives, and improving diagnostic efficiency. This is especially useful for diagnosing scenarios such as CPU spikes in instances or read/write hotspots in clusters.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/top-sql#use-top-sql">Support viewing aggregated TiKV CPU time by table or database</a></td>

>     <td>When hotspot issues are not caused by individual SQL statements, using the aggregated CPU time by table or database level in TOP SQL can help you quickly identify the tables or applications responsible for the hotspots, significantly improving the efficiency of diagnosing hotspot and CPU consumption issues.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>When hotspot issues are not caused by individual SQL statements, using the aggregated CPU time by table or database level in Top SQL can help you quickly identify the tables or applications responsible for the hotspots, significantly improving the efficiency of diagnosing hotspot and CPU consumption issues.</td>
```

### Observability

* Display the CPU time consumed by TiDB and TiKV in the system table [#55542](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55542) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

    The [Top SQL page](/dashboard/top-sql.md) of [TiDB Dashboard](/dashboard/dashboard-intro.md) displays SQL statements with high CPU consumption. Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB adds CPU time consumption information to the system table, presented alongside other metrics for sessions or SQL, making it easier to observe high CPU consumption operations from multiple perspectives. This information can help you quickly identify the causes of issues in scenarios like instance CPU spikes or read/write hotspots in clusters.

    - The [statement summary tables](/statement-summary-tables.md) add `AVG_TIDB_CPU_TIME` and `AVG_TIKV_CPU_TIME`, showing the average CPU time consumed by individual SQL statements historically.
    - The [INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) table adds `TIDB_CPU` and `TIKV_CPU`, showing the cumulative CPU consumption of the SQL statements currently being executed in a session.

>     - The [slow query Log](/analyze-slow-queries.md) adds the `Tidb_cpu_time` and `Tikv_cpu_time` fields, showing the CPU time of captured SQL statements.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - The [slow query log](/analyze-slow-queries.md) adds the `Tidb_cpu_time` and `Tikv_cpu_time` fields, showing the CPU time consumed by captured SQL statements.
```

* TiCDC introduces Checksum V2 to verify old values in Update or Delete events [#10969](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10969) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

    Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB and TiCDC introduce the Checksum V2 algorithm to address issues of Checksum V1 in verifying old values in Update or Delete events after `ADD COLUMN` or `DROP COLUMN` operations. For clusters created in v8.4.0 or later, or clusters upgraded to v8.4.0, TiDB uses Checksum V2 by default when single-row data checksum verification is enabled. TiCDC supports handling both Checksum V1 and V2. This change only affects TiDB and TiCDC internal implementation and does not affect checksum calculation methods for downstream Kafka consumers.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-integrity-check.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.3.0 to the current version (v8.4.0). If you are upgrading from v8.2.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

> 

Reviewer 7: TiKV upgrades its RocksDB lib version from 6.29 to 8.10. This change breaks the forward compatibility, since RocksDB introduced several new SST file custom tags that are not recognizable by older versions while loading MANIFEST files.

> 

Reviewer 7: It is not a behavior change. And it only affects downgrade, https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/upgrade-tidb-using-tiup explicitly says TiUP does not support downgrade. I don't think we need to update that doc?

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/partitioned-table#global-indexes">Global indexes for partitioned tables (GA)</a></td>
    <td>Global indexes can effectively improve the efficiency of retrieving non-partitioned columns, and remove the restriction that a unique key must contain the partition key. This feature extends the usage scenarios of TiDB partitioned tables, and avoids some of the application modification work required for data migration.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840">Parallel mode for TSO requests</a></td>
    <td>In high-concurrency scenarios, you can use this feature to reduce the wait time for retrieving TSO and improve the cluster throughput.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Improve query performance for cached tables</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td>Improve query performance for <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/cached-tables">cached tables</a></td>
```

    In early TiDB versions, the partitioned table has some limitations because it does not support global indexes. For example, the unique key must use every column in the table's partition expression. If the query condition does not use the partition key, the query will scan all partitions, resulting in poor performance. Starting from v7.6.0, the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) is introduced to enable the global index feature. But this feature was under development at that time and it is not recommended to enable it.

    Starting from v8.3.0, the global index feature is released as an experimental feature. You can explicitly create a global index for a partitioned table with the `GLOBAL` keyword. This removes the restriction that a unique key in a partitioned table must include all columns used in the partition expression, allowing for more flexible application requirements. Additionally, global indexes also improve the performance of queries based on non-partitioned columns.

>     In v8.4.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA). You must use the keyword `GLOBAL` to create a global index, instead of setting the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) to enable the global index feature. From v8.4.0 this system variable is deprecated and is always `ON`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    In v8.4.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA). You can use the keyword `GLOBAL` to create a global index, instead of setting the system variable [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) to enable the global index feature. Starting from v8.4.0, this system variable is deprecated and is always `ON`.
```

    - The [statement summary tables](/statement-summary-tables.md) add `AVG_TIDB_CPU_TIME` and `AVG_TIKV_CPU_TIME`, showing the average CPU time consumed by individual SQL statements historically.
    - The [INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) table adds `TIDB_CPU` and `TIKV_CPU`, showing the cumulative CPU consumption of the SQL statements currently being executed in a session.
    - The [slow query Log](/analyze-slow-queries.md) adds the `Tidb_cpu_time` and `Tikv_cpu_time` fields, showing the CPU time of captured SQL statements.

  By default, the CPU time consumed by TiKV is displayed. Collecting the CPU time consumed by TiDB brings additional overhead (about 8%), so the CPU time consumed by TiDB only shows the actual value when [Top SQL](/dashboard/top-sql.md) is enabled; otherwise, it always shows as `0`.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) and [documentation](/information-schema/information-schema-slow-query.md).

Reviewer 4: ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/51cec798-bcf9-420b-b59b-37b607c890c7)

>     For more information, see [documentation](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) and [documentation](/information-schema/information-schema-slow-query.md).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) and [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SLOW_QUERY`](/information-schema/information-schema-slow-query.md).
```

    * It is planned to redesign [the automatic evolution of execution plan bindings](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) in subsequent releases, and the related variables and behavior will change.
    * In v8.0.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) system variable to control whether TiDB supports disk spill for the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. In future versions, the [`tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) system variable will be deprecated.
    * The TiDB Lightning parameter [`conflict.max-record-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is planned for deprecation in a future release and will be subsequently removed. This parameter will be replaced by [`conflict.threshold`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task), which means that the maximum number of conflicting records is consistent with the maximum number of conflicting records that can be tolerated in a single import task.

>    * Starting from v6.3.0, partitioned tables use [dynamic pruning mode](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) by default. Compared with static pruning mode, dynamic pruning mode supports features such as IndexJoin and plan cache with better performance. Therefore, static pruning mode will be deprecated.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    * Starting from v6.3.0, partitioned tables use [dynamic pruning mode](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) by default. Compared with static pruning mode, dynamic pruning mode supports features such as IndexJoin and plan cache with better performance. Therefore, static pruning mode will be deprecated.
```

    - Optimize performance of system metadata-related statements [#50305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50305) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Implement a new priority queue for auto-analyze operations to improve analyze performance and reduce the cost of rebuilding the queue [#55906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55906) @[Rustin170506](https://github.com/Rustin170506)
    - Introduce a DDL notifier to allow the statistics module to subscribe to DDL events [#55722](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55722) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) @[Rustin170506](https://github.com/Rustin170506)
    - Force new TiDB nodes to take over DDL ownership during TiDB upgrades to avoid compatibility issues caused by old TiDB nodes taking ownership [#51285](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/51285) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Support cluster-level Scatter Region [#8424](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8424) @[River2000i](https://github.com/River2000i)

+ TiKV

>     - Increase the default value of Region from 96 MiB to 256 MiB to avoid the extra overhead caused by too many Regions [#17309](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17309) [LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Increase the default value of Region from 96 MiB to 256 MiB to avoid the extra overhead caused by too many Regions [#17309](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17309) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
```

---
title: TiDB 8.4.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.4.0.
---

# TiDB 8.4.0 Release Notes

> Release date: October 30, 2024

Author: ```suggestion
Release date: xx xx, 2024
```

    * The TiDB Lightning parameter [`conflict.max-record-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is planned for deprecation in a future release and will be subsequently removed. This parameter will be replaced by [`conflict.threshold`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task), which means that the maximum number of conflicting records is consistent with the maximum number of conflicting records that can be tolerated in a single import task.
   * Starting from v6.3.0, partitioned tables use [dynamic pruning mode](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) by default. Compared with static pruning mode, dynamic pruning mode supports features such as IndexJoin and plan cache with better performance. Therefore, static pruning mode will be deprecated.

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 11 notes-->

    - Optimize the efficiency of constructing BatchCop tasks when scanning a large amount of data [#55915](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55915) [#55413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55413) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12) **tw@caiqian** <!--1902-->

>     - Optimize MEMDB implementation to reduce write latency in transactions and TiDB CPU usage [#55287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55287) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1892-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the transaction's buffer to reduce write latency in transactions and TiDB CPU usage [#55287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55287) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1892-->
```

Reviewer: @dveeden Updated. PTAL.

Reviewer 8: Yes, perfect!

---
title: TiDB 8.4.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.4.0.
---

# TiDB 8.4.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.4.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/quick-start-with-tidb)

8.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840">Instance-level execution plan cache</a> (experimental)**tw@Oreoxmt 1569**</td>

>     <td>Instance-level execution plan cache allows all sessions within the same TiDB instance to share the execution plan cache. This feature reduces SQL compilation time by caching more execution plans in memory, decreasing overall SQL execution time. It improves OLTP performance and throughput while providing better control over memory usage and enhancing database stability.</td>

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    <td>Instance-level plan cache allows all sessions within the same TiDB instance to share the plan cache. In comparison with session-level plan cache, this feature reduces SQL compilation time by caching more execution plans in memory, decreasing overall SQL execution time. It improves OLTP performance and throughput while providing better control over memory usage and enhancing database stability.</td>
```

    Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB can identify runaway queries based on the number of processed keys (`PROCESSED_KEYS`) and request units (`RU`). Compared with execution time (`EXEC_ELAPSED`), these new thresholds more accurately define the resource consumption of queries, avoiding identification bias when overall performance decreases.

    You can set multiple conditions simultaneously, and a query is identified as a runaway query if any condition is met.

    You can observe the corresponding fields (`RESOURCE_GROUP`, `MAX_REQUEST_UNIT_WRITE`, `MAX_REQUEST_UNIT_READ`, `MAX_PROCESSED_KEYS`) in the [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md) to determine the condition values based on historical execution.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-resource-control.md#manage-queries-that-consume-more-resources-than-expected-runaway-queries).

* Support switching resource groups for runaway queries [#54434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54434) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1832-->

>     Starting from TiDB v8.4.0, you can switch the resource group of runaway queries to a specific one. If the `COOLDOWN` mechanism fails to lower resource consumption, you can create a [resource group](/tidb-resource-control.md#create-a-resource-group) and set the `SWITCH_GROUP` parameter to move identified runaway queries to this group. Meanwhile, subsequent queries within the same session will continue to execute in the original resource group. By switching resource groups, you can manage resource usage more precisely, and control the resource consumption more strictly.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    Starting from TiDB v8.4.0, you can switch the resource group of runaway queries to a specific one. If the `COOLDOWN` mechanism fails to lower resource consumption, you can create a [resource group](/tidb-resource-control.md#create-a-resource-group) with a limited upper bound and set the `SWITCH_GROUP` parameter to move identified runaway queries to this group. Meanwhile, subsequent queries within the same session will continue to execute in the original resource group. By switching resource groups, you can manage resource usage more precisely, and control the resource consumption more strictly.
```

    - Adjusting the default priority scheduling strategy. When tasks of different priorities run simultaneously, high-priority tasks receive more resources.

### Availability

* TiProxy supports traffic replay (experimental) [#642](https://github.com/pingcap/tiproxy/issues/642) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1942-->

    Starting from TiProxy v1.3.0, you can use `tiproxyctrl` to connect to the TiProxy instance, capture access traffic in a TiDB production cluster, and replay it in a test cluster at a specified rate. This feature enables you to reproduce actual workloads from the production cluster in a test environment, verifying SQL statement execution results and performance.

    Traffic replay is useful in the following scenarios:

    - Validate TiDB version upgrades
    - Assess change impact
    - Validate performance before scaling TiDB
    - Test performance limits

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-traffic-replay.md).

### SQL

> * Support vector search (experimental) [#54245](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54245) [#9032](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9032) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898) **tw@qiancai** <!--1898-->

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* Support vector search (experimental) [#54245](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54245) [#17290](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17290) [#9032](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9032) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger) @[EricZequan](https://github.com/EricZequan) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898) **tw@qiancai** <!--1898-->
```

    Vector search is a search method based on data semantics, which provides more relevant search results. As one of the core functions of AI and large language models (LLMs), vector search can be used in various scenarios such as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), semantic search, and recommendation systems.

    Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB supports [vector data types](/vector-search-data-types.md) and [vector search indexes](/vector-search-index.md), offering powerful vector search capabilities. TiDB vector data types support up to 16,383 dimensions and support various [distance functions](/vector-search-functions-and-operators.md#vector-functions), including L2 distance (Euclidean distance), cosine distance, negative inner product, and L1 distance (Manhattan distance).

    To start vector search, you only need to create a table with vector data types, insert vector data, and then perform a query of vector data. You can also perform mixed queries of vector data and traditional relational data.

>     To enhance the performance of vector search, you can create and use [vector search indexes](vector-search-index.md). Note that TiDB vector search indexes rely on TiFlash. Before using vector search indexes, make sure that TiFlash nodes are deployed in your TiDB cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
    To enhance the performance of vector search, you can create and use [vector search indexes](/vector-search-index.md). Note that TiDB vector search indexes rely on TiFlash. Before using vector search indexes, make sure that TiFlash nodes are deployed in your TiDB cluster.
```

    The [Top SQL page](/dashboard/top-sql.md) of [TiDB Dashboard](/dashboard/dashboard-intro.md) displays SQL statements with high CPU consumption. Starting from v8.4.0, TiDB adds CPU time consumption information to the system table, presented alongside other metrics for sessions or SQL, making it easier to observe high CPU consumption operations from multiple perspectives. This information can help you quickly identify the causes of issues in scenarios like instance CPU spikes or read/write hotspots in clusters.

    - The [statement summary tables](/statement-summary-tables.md) add `AVG_TIDB_CPU_TIME` and `AVG_TIKV_CPU_TIME`, showing the average CPU time consumed by individual SQL statements historically.
    - The [INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) table adds `TIDB_CPU` and `TIKV_CPU`, showing the cumulative CPU consumption of the SQL statements currently being executed in a session.
    - The [slow query Log](/analyze-slow-queries.md) adds the `Tidb_cpu_time` and `Tikv_cpu_time` fields, showing the CPU time of captured SQL statements.

>   By default, the CPU time consumed by TiKV is displayed. Collecting the CPU time consumed by TiDB brings additional overhead (about 8%), so the CPU time consumed by TiDB only shows the actual value when [Top SQL](https://github.com/dashboard/top-sql.md) is enabled; otherwise, it always show as `0`.

Author: ```suggestion
  By default, the CPU time consumed by TiKV is displayed. Collecting the CPU time consumed by TiDB brings additional overhead (about 8%), so the CPU time consumed by TiDB only shows the actual value when [Top SQL](/dashboard/top-sql.md) is enabled; otherwise, it always show as `0`.
```

    - Support setting memory usage limits for in-memory pessimistic locks in a Region or TiKV instance. When hot write scenarios cause a large number of pessimistic locks, you can increase the memory limits via configuration. This helps avoid CPU and I/O overhead caused by pessimistic locks being written to disk. [#17542](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17542) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1967-->
    - Introduce a new `spill-dir` configuration item in Raft Engine, supporting multi-disk storage for Raft logs; when the disk where the home directory (`dir`) is located runs out of space, the Raft Engine automatically writes new logs to `spill-dir`, ensuring continuous operation of the system [#17356](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17356) [LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1970-->
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > Improvements> TiKV - - Optimize the compaction trigger mechanism of RocksDB to accelerate disk space reclamation when handling a large number of DELETE versions [#17269](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17269) @[AndreMouche](https://github.com/AndreMouche)

>     - Support pushing down vector data types and related functions for calculation [#17290](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17290) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
```

    <td>Instance-level execution plan cache allows all sessions within the same TiDB instance to share the execution plan cache. This feature reduces SQL compilation time by caching more execution plans in memory, decreasing overall SQL execution time. It improves OLTP performance and throughput while providing better control over memory usage and enhancing database stability.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/partitioned-table#global-indexes">Global indexes for partitioned tables (GA)</a>**tw@hfxsd 1961**</td>
    <td>Global indexes can effectively improve the efficiency of retrieving non-partitioned columns, and remove the restriction that a unique key must contain the partition key. This feature extends the usage scenarios of TiDB partitioned tables, and avoids some of the application modification work required for data migration.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840">Concurrent TSO retrieval for TiDB</a>**tw@qiancai 1893**</td>

>     <td>In high-concurrency scenarios, you can use this feature to reduce the wait time for obtaining TSO and improve the cluster throughput.</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td>In high-concurrency scenarios, retr to reduce the wait time for obtaining TSO and improve the cluster throughput.</td>
```

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840">Concurrent TSO retrieval for TiDB</a>**tw@qiancai 1893**</td>
>     <td>In high-concurrency scenarios, you can use this feature to reduce the wait time for obtaining TSO and improve the cluster throughput.</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840">Parallel mode for retrieving TSO</a>**tw@qiancai 1893**</td>
    <td>In high-concurrency scenarios, you can use this feature to reduce the wait time for obtaining TSO and improve the cluster throughput.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">Security</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/br-pitr-manual#encrypt-log-backup-data">Client-side encryption of log backup data</a> (experimental) **tw@qiancai 1920**</td>
    <td>Before uploading log backup data to your backup storage, you can encrypt the backup data to ensure its security during storage and transmission.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Performance

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

> * Add RPC mode for obtaining TSO, reducing TSO retrieval latency [#54960](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54960) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta) **tw@qiancai** <!--1893-->

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Add concurrent RPC modes for obtaining TSO, reducing TSO retrieval latency [#54960](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54960) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta) **tw@qiancai** <!--1893-->
```

> * Add concurrent RPC modes for obtaining TSO, reducing TSO retrieval latency [#54960](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54960) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta) **tw@qiancai** <!--1893-->
> 
>     When TiDB requests TSO from PD, it collects multiple requests over a period of time and processes them in batches serially to decrease the number of Remote Procedure Call (RPC) requests and reduce PD workload. In latency-sensitive scenarios, however, the performance of this serial batching mode is not ideal.
> 
>     In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces concurrent batching modes for TSO requests with different concurrency capabilities. Concurrent modes reduce TSO retrieval latency but might increase the PD workload. To set a concurrent RPC mode for obtaining TSO, configure the [tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840) system variable.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Introduces parallel batching modes for TSO requests, reducing TSO retrieval latency [#54960](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54960) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta) **tw@qiancai** <!--1893-->

    When requesting TSO from PD, TiDB collects multiple requests during a specific period and processes them in batches serially to decrease the number of Remote Procedure Call (RPC) requests and reduce PD workload. In latency-sensitive scenarios, however, the performance of this serial batching mode is not ideal.

    In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces parallel batching modes for TSO requests with different concurrency capabilities. Parallel modes reduce TSO retrieval latency but might increase the PD workload. To set a parallel RPC mode for retrieving TSO, configure the [tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840) system variable.
```

>     When TiDB requests TSO from PD, it consolidates multiple requests over a period of time and processes them in synchronous batches to decrease the number of RPC (Remote Procedure Call) requests and reduce PD workload. However, the performance of this synchronous batching mode is not ideal in latency-sensitive scenarios.
> 
>     In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces an asynchronous batching mode for TSO requests,  which provides various levels of concurrency. This asynchronous mode can reduce the latency for obtaining a TSO but might increase PD workload. To set the RPC mode for obtaining TSO, you can configure the [tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840) system variable.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    When TiDB requests TSO from PD, it collects multiple requests over a period of time and processes them in batches serially to decrease the number of Remote Procedure Call (RPC) requests and reduce PD workload. In latency-sensitive scenarios, however, the performance of this serial batching mode is not ideal.

    In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces concurrent batching modes for TSO requests with different concurrency capabilities. Concurrent modes reduce TSO retrieval latency but might increase the PD workload. To set a concurrent RPC mode for obtaining TSO, configure the [tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840) system variable.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-integrity-check.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.3.0 to the current version (v8.4.0). If you are upgrading from v8.2.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

* Behavior change

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`log_bin`](/system-variables.md#log_bin) | Deleted | In v8.4.0, [TiDB Binlog](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/tidb-binlog-overview) is removed. This variable indicates whether TiDB Binlog is used, and is deleted starting from v8.4.0. |
| [`sql_log_bin`](/system-variables.md#sql_log_bin) | Deleted | In v8.4.0, [TiDB Binlog](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/tidb-binlog-overview) is removed. This variable indicates whether to write changes to TiDB Binlog or not, and is deleted starting from v8.4.0. |

> | tidb_enable_table_partition | Deprecated | Always set to `ON`. Table partitioning has been GA since v5.1 and this experimental flag, if set to `OFF`, would cause create table with partitioning, just parse and ignore the partitioning clause. |
> | tidb_enable_list_partition | Deprecated | Always set to ON. List partitioning has been GA since v6.1 |
> | tidb_enable_global_index | Deprecated | Always set to `ON`. Global Index for partitioned tables is GA since v8.4.0, and needs explicit `GLOBAL` IndexOption to be used, so this system variable is no longer needed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) | Deprecated | In v8.4.0, this variable is deprecated. Its value will be fixed to the default value `ON`, that is, [global index] is enabled by default (/partitioned-table.md#global-indexes). You only need to add the keyword `GLOBAL` to the corresponding column when executing `CREATE TABLE` or `ALTER TABLE` to create a global index. |
| [`tidb_enable_list_partition`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_list_partition-new-in-v50) | Deprecated | In v8.4.0, this variable is deprecated. Its value will be fixed to the default value `ON`, that is, [list partitioning] is enabled by default (/partitioned-table.md#list-partitioning). |
| [`tidb_enable_table_partition`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_table_partition) | Deprecated | In v8.4.0, this variable is deprecated. Its value will be fixed to the default value `ON`, that is, [table partitioning] is enabled by default (/partitioned-table.md). |
```

| [`tidb_analyze_partition_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_partition_concurrency) | Modified | Changes the value range from `[1, 18446744073709551615]` to `[1, 128]`. |
| [`tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency-new-in-v840)| Newly added | Sets the concurrency within a single automatic statistics collection task. Before v8.4.0, this concurrency is fixed at `1`. To speed up statistics collection tasks, you can increase this concurrency based on your cluster's available resources. |
| [`tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840)| Newly added | Controls whether to enable the Instance Plan Cache feature. |
| [`tidb_instance_plan_cache_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_instance_plan_cache_max_size-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Sets the maximum memory usage for Instance Plan Cache. |
| [`tidb_instance_plan_cache_reserved_percentage`](/system-variables.md#tidb_instance_plan_cache_reserved_percentage-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Controls the percentage of idle memory reserved for Instance Plan Cache after memory eviction. |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_hash_join_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB uses an optimized version of the Hash Join operator. The default value of `legacy` means that the optimized version is not used. If you set it to `optimized`, TiDB uses the optimized version of the Hash Join operator when executing it to improve Hash Join performance. |
| [`tidb_pre_split_regions`](/system-variables.md#tidb_pre_split_regions-new-in-v840)   | Newly added | Before v8.4.0, setting the default number of row split slices for newly created tables required declaring `PRE_SPLIT_REGIONS` in each `CREATE TABLE` SQL statement, which is complicated once a large number of tables need to be similarly configured. This variable is introduced to solve such problems. You can set this system variable at the `GLOBAL` or `SESSION` level to improve usability.  |
| [`tidb_shard_row_id_bits`](/system-variables.md#tidb_shard_row_id_bits-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Before v8.4.0, setting the default number of slices for row IDs for newly created tables required declaring `SHARD_ROW_ID_BITS` in each `CREATE TABLE` or `ALTER TABLE` SQL statement, which is complicated once a large number of tables need to be similarly configured. This variable is introduced to solve such problems. You can set this system variable at the `GLOBAL` or `SESSION` level to improve usability.|
|  [`tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840)      | Newly added                     | The original TSO requests were in synchronous mode. An asynchronous batch mode for TSO requests is now introduced with different concurrency capabilities. The asynchronous mode reduces the latency of getting TSOs, but might increase the load on the PD.  |

```

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |

> | -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`grpc-keepalive-time`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#grpc-keepalive-time) | 修改 | 增加最小值 `1`。 |
| TiDB | [`grpc-keepalive-timeout`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#grpc-keepalive-timeout) | 修改 | 该配置文件参数原先为 INT 类型，且最小值仅支持设置为 `1`。从 v8.4.0 开始，数据类型修改为 FLOAT64，且最小值支持设置为 `0.05`，可以在网络抖动比较频繁的场景，适当调小该值，通过减少重试间隔，来减少网络抖动带来的性能影响。   |
| TiKV | [`region-split-keys`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-split-keys) | 修改 | 从 v8.4.0 开始，默认值修改为 `"2560000"`。在 v8.4.0 之前，默认值为 `"960000"`。 |
| TiKV | [`region-split-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-split-size) | 修改 | 从 v8.4.0 开始，默认值修改为 `"256MiB"`。在 v8.4.0 之前，默认值为 `"96MiB"`。 |
| TiKV | [`sst-max-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#sst-max-size) | 修改 | 从 v8.4.0 开始，默认值修改为 `"384MiB"`。在 v8.4.0 之前，默认值为 `"144MiB"`。 |
```

| TiKV | [`pessimistic-txn.in-memory-peer-size-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#in-memory-peer-size-limit-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Controls the memory usage limit for in-memory pessimistic locks in a Region. When this limit is exceeded, TiKV writes pessimistic locks persistently. |

> | TiKV | [`pessimistic-txn.in-memory-instance-size-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#in-memory-instance-size-limit-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Controls the memory usage limit for in-memory pessimistic locks in a TiKV instance. When this limit is exceeded, TiKV writes pessimistic locks persistently. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`pessimistic-txn.in-memory-instance-size-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#in-memory-instance-size-limit-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Controls the memory usage limit for in-memory pessimistic locks in a TiKV instance. When this limit is exceeded, TiKV writes pessimistic locks persistently. |
| TiKV | [`raft-engine.spill-dir`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#spill-dir-从-v840-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 该配置文件参数用于指定 TiKV 实例存储 Raft 日志文件的辅助目录，用于支持多盘存储 Raft 日志文件。 |
| TiKV | [`resource-control.priority-ctl-strategy`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#priority-ctl-strategy-从-v840-版本开始引入)      | 新增 |   该配置文件参数用于配置低优先级任务的管控策略。TiKV 通过对低优先级的任务添加流量控制来确保优先执行更高优先级的任务。|
| PD | [`max-merge-region-keys`](/pd-configuration-file.md#max-merge-region-keys) | 修改 | 从 v8.4.0 开始，默认值修改为 `540000`。在 v8.4.0 之前，默认值为 `200000`。 |
| PD | [`max-merge-region-size`](/pd-configuration-file.md#max-merge-region-size) | 修改 | 从 v8.4.0 开始，默认值修改为 `54`。在 v8.4.0 之前，默认值为 `20`。 |
| TiFlash | [`storage.format_version`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md) | 修改 | 默认值从 `5` 修改为 `7`，该格式可以支持向量索引的构建与存储。 |
```

    * It is planned to redesign [the automatic evolution of execution plan bindings](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) in subsequent releases, and the related variables and behavior will change.
    * In v8.0.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) system variable to control whether TiDB supports disk spill for the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. In future versions, the [`tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) system variable will be deprecated.
    * The TiDB Lightning parameter [`conflict.max-record-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is planned for deprecation in a future release and will be subsequently removed. This parameter will be replaced by [`conflict.threshold`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task), which means that the maximum number of conflicting records is consistent with the maximum number of conflicting records that can be tolerated in a single import task.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Starting from v6.3.0, partitioned tables use [dynamic pruning mode](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) by default. Compared with static pruning mode, dynamic pruning mode supports features such as IndexJoin and plan cache with better performance. Therefore, static pruning mode will be deprecated.
   
```

| [`tidb_pre_split_regions`](/system-variables.md#tidb_pre_split_regions-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Before v8.4.0, setting the default number of row split slices for newly created tables required declaring `PRE_SPLIT_REGIONS` in each `CREATE TABLE` SQL statement, which is complicated once a large number of tables need to be similarly configured. This variable is introduced to solve such problems. You can set this system variable at the `GLOBAL` or `SESSION` level to improve usability. |
| [`tidb_shard_row_id_bits`](/system-variables.md#tidb_shard_row_id_bits-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Before v8.4.0, setting the default number of slices for row IDs for newly created tables required declaring `SHARD_ROW_ID_BITS` in each `CREATE TABLE` or `ALTER TABLE` SQL statement, which is complicated once a large number of tables need to be similarly configured. This variable is introduced to solve such problems. You can set this system variable at the `GLOBAL` or `SESSION` level to improve usability. |

> | [`tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840) | Newly added | The original TSO requests were in synchronous mode. An asynchronous batch mode for TSO requests is now introduced with different concurrency capabilities. The asynchronous mode reduces the latency of getting TSOs, but might increase the load on the PD.  |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Switches the mode in which TiDB sends TSO RPC requests to PD. The mode determines whether TSO RPC requests can be processed in parallel and affects the time spent on batch-waiting for each TS retrieval operation, thereby helping reduce the wait time for retrieving TS during the execution of queries in certain scenarios.  |
```

    <td>Global indexes can effectively improve the efficiency of retrieving non-partitioned columns, and remove the restriction that a unique key must contain the partition key. This feature extends the usage scenarios of TiDB partitioned tables, and avoids some of the application modification work required for data migration.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840">Parallel mode for TSO requests</a>**tw@qiancai 1893**</td>
    <td>In high-concurrency scenarios, you can use this feature to reduce the wait time for retrieving TSO and improve the cluster throughput.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Improve query performance for cached tables**tw@hfxsd 1965**</td>
    <td>Improve query performance for index scanning on cached tables, with improvements of up to 5.4 times in some scenarios. For high-speed queries on small tables, using cached tables can significantly enhance overall performance.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">Reliability and Availability</td>

>     <td>Support more triggers for runaway queries, and support switching resource groups**tw@hfxsd 1832 tw@lilin90 1800**</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.4/tidb-resource-control#query_limit-parameters">Support more triggers for runaway queries, and support switching resource groups</a>**tw@hfxsd 1832 tw@lilin90 1800**</td>
```

    <td>Runaway Queries offer an effective way to mitigate the impact of unexpected SQL performance issues on systems. TiDB v8.4.0 introduces the number of keys processed by the Coprocessor (<code>PROCESSED_KEYS</code>) and request units (<code>RU</code>) as identifying conditions, and puts identified queries into the specified resource group for more precise identification and control of runaway queries.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Support setting the maximum limit on resource usage for background tasks of resource control **tw@hfxsd 1909**</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/tidb-resource-control#background-parameters">Support setting the maximum limit on resource usage for background tasks of resource control</a> **tw@hfxsd 1909**</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/system-variables#tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency-new-in-v840">Concurrent automatic statistics collection</a>**tw@Oreoxmt 1739**</td>
    <td>You can set the concurrency within a single automatic statistics collection task using the system variable <code>tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency</code>. TiDB automatically determines the concurrency of scanning tasks based on node scale and hardware specifications. This improves statistics collection efficiency by fully utilizing system resources, reduces manual tuning, and ensures stable cluster performance.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">SQL</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/vector-search-overview">Vector search</a> (experimental) **tw@qiancai 1898**</td>
    <td>Vector search is a search method based on data semantics, which provides more relevant search results. As one of the core functions of AI and large language models (LLMs), vector search can be used in various scenarios such as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), semantic search, and recommendation systems.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td>Display TiKV and TiDB CPU times in memory tables**tw@hfxsd 1877**</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/information-schema-processlist">Display TiKV and TiDB CPU times in memory tables</a>**tw@hfxsd 1877**</td>
```

    <td>The CPU time is now integrated into a system table, displayed alongside other metrics for sessions or SQL, letting you observe high CPU consumption operations from multiple perspectives, and improves diagnostic efficiency. This is especially useful for diagnosing scenarios such as CPU spikes in instances or read/write hotspots in clusters.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Support viewing aggregated TiKV CPU time by table or database **tw@lilin90 1878**</td>
    <td>When hotspot issues are not caused by individual SQL statements, using the aggregated CPU time by table or database level in <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.4/top-sql">TOP SQL</a> can help you quickly identify the tables or applications responsible for the hotspots, significantly improving the efficiency of diagnosing hotspot and CPU consumption issues.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Support backing up TiKV instances with IMDSv2 service enabled**tw@hfxsd 1945**</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.4/backup-and-restore-storages#authentication">Support backing up TiKV instances with IMDSv2 service enabled</a>**tw@hfxsd 1945**</td>
```

>     <td>Support viewing aggregated TiKV CPU time by table or database **tw@lilin90 1878**</td>
>     <td>When hotspot issues are not caused by individual SQL statements, using the aggregated CPU time by table or database level in <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.4/top-sql">TOP SQL</a> can help you quickly identify the tables or applications responsible for the hotspots, significantly improving the efficiency of diagnosing hotspot and CPU consumption issues.</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/top-sql#use-top-sql">Support viewing aggregated TiKV CPU time by table or database</a>**tw@lilin90 1878**</td>
    <td>When hotspot issues are not caused by individual SQL statements, using the aggregated CPU time by table or database level in TOP SQL can help you quickly identify the tables or applications responsible for the hotspots, significantly improving the efficiency of diagnosing hotspot and CPU consumption issues.</td>
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840).

* Optimize the execution efficiency of the hash join operator for TiDB (experimental) [#55153](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55153) [#53127](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53127) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12) **tw@qiancai** <!--1633-->

    In v8.4.0, TiDB introduces an optimized version of the hash join operator to improve its execution efficiency. Currently, the optimized version of the hash join applies only to inner join and outer join operations and is disabled by default. To enable this optimized version, configure the [`tidb_hash_join_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840) system variable to `optimized`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840).

> * Support pushing down the following date functions to TiKV [#17529](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17529) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@qiancai** <!--1716-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Support pushing down the following date functions to TiKV [#56297](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56297) [#17529](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17529) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@qiancai** <!--1716-->
```

  By default, the CPU time consumed by TiKV is displayed. Collecting the CPU time consumed by TiDB brings additional overhead (about 8%), so the CPU time consumed by TiDB only shows the actual value when [Top SQL](https://github.com/dashboard/top-sql.md) is enabled; otherwise, it always show as `0`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md) and [documentation](information-schema/information-schema-slow-query.md).

* Top SQL supports viewing aggregated CPU time results by table or database [#55540](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55540) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) **tw@lilin90** <!--1878-->

    Before v8.4.0, [Top SQL](/dashboard/top-sql.md) aggregates CPU time by SQL. If CPU time is not consumed by a few SQL statements, aggregation by SQL cannot effectively identify issues. Starting from v8.4.0, you can choose to aggregate CPU time **By TABLE** or **By DB**. In scenarios with multiple systems, the new aggregation method can more effectively identify load changes from a specific system, improving diagnostic efficiency.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/dashboard/top-sql.md).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/dashboard/top-sql.md#use-top-sql).
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Disable splitting Regions by table to improve restore speed when restoring data to a cluster where the `split-table` and `split-region-on-table` configuration items are `false` (default value) [#53532](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53532) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) **tw@qiancai** <!--1914-->
        - Disable full data restoration to a non-empty cluster using the `RESTORE` SQL statement by default [#55087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55087) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1711-->

    + TiCDC

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

    + TiDB Lightning

    + Dumpling

    + TiUP

    + TiDB Binlog

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB <!--tw@lilin90: the following 13 notes-->

    - Fix the issue that a deadlock might occur when the `tidb_restricted_read_only` variable is set to `true` [#53822](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53822) [#55373](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55373) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB does not wait for auto-commit transactions to complete when shutting down gracefully [#55464](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55464) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB does not wait for auto-commit transactions to complete during graceful shutdown [#55464](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55464) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

    - Fix the issue that the optimizer does not use the best multi-column statistics information for row count estimation when the query contains filter conditions like `(... AND ...) OR (... AND ...) ...` [#54323](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54323) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - Fix the issue that the `read_from_storage` hint might not take effect when the query has an available Index Merge execution plan [#56217](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56217) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 13 notes-->
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 `IndexNestedLoopHashJoin` 中存在数据竞争的问题 [#49692](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49692) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.STATISTICS` 表中 `SUB_PART` 值为空的问题 [#55812](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55812) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 DML 语句中包含嵌套的生成列时报错的问题 [#53967](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53967) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)

>     - Fix the issue that the INTEGER data type with minimum display width in the division operation might cause the division result to overflow [#55837](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55837) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the integer type of data with minimum display length in the division operation might cause the division result to overflow [#55837](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55837) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
```

    - Fix the issue that the operator that follows the TopN operator can not trigger the fallback action when the memory limit is exceeded [#56185](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56185) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - Fix the issue that the `ORDER BY` column in the Sort operator is stuck if it contains a constant [#55344](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55344) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - Fix the issue that when adding an index, the `8223 (HY000)` error occurs after killing the PD leader and the data in the table is inconsistent [#55488](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55488) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - Fix the issue that too many DDL history tasks cause OOM when you request information about history DDL tasks [#55711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55711) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that too many DDL history jobs cause OOM when you request information about history DDL jobs [#55711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55711) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
```

    - Fix the issue that adding a unique index causes the `duplicate entry` error [#56161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56161) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not ingest all KV pairs when TiKV is down for more than 810 seconds, resulting in inconsistent data in the table [#55808](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55808) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - Fix the issue that the `CREATE TABLE LIKE` statement can not be used for cached tables [#56134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56134) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the confusing warning message for `FORMAT()` expressions in CTE [#56198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/56198) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Fix the issue that column type restrictions are inconsistent between `CREATE TABLE` and `ALTER TABLE` when creating a partitioned table [#56094](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56094) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

>     - Fix the incorrect time type in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.RUNAWAY_WATCHES` table [#54770](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54770) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix the incorrect time type in the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.RUNAWAY_WATCHES` table [#54770](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54770) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
```

        - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复开启日志备份时，BR 日志可能打印权限凭证敏感信息的问题 [#55273](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55273) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复当 PITR 日志备份任务失败时，用户停止了该任务后，PD 中与该任务相关的 safepoint 未被正确清除的问题 [#17316](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17316) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiCDC

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - (dup): release-7.5.4.md > 错误修复 > TiDB Data Migration (DM) - 修复多个 dm-master 同时成为 Leader 的问题 [#11602](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11602) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - 修复 DM 在处理 `ALTER DATABASE` 语句时未设置默认数据库导致同步报错的问题 [#11503](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11503) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    + TiDB Lightning <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 1 note-->

>         - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning reports a `verify allocator base failed` error when using parallel import mode with identical task IDs [#55384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55384) @[ei-sugimoto](https://github.com/ei-sugimoto)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning reports a `verify allocator base failed` error when two instances simultaneously start parallel import tasks and are assigned the same task ID [#55384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55384) @[ei-sugimoto](https://github.com/ei-sugimoto)
```

>         - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning reports a `verify allocator base failed` error when using parallel import mode with identical task IDs [#55384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55384) @[ei-sugimoto](https://github.com/ei-sugimoto)

Reviewer 4: not sure if the Chinese description is correct https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/18556#discussion_r1800925641

    - Fix the issue that adding a unique index causes the `duplicate entry` error [#56161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56161) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not ingest all KV pairs when TiKV is down for more than 810 seconds, resulting in inconsistent data in the table [#55808](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55808) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - Fix the issue that the `CREATE TABLE LIKE` statement can not be used for cached tables [#56134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56134) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the confusing warning message for `FORMAT()` expressions in CTE [#56198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/56198) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Fix the issue that column type restrictions are inconsistent between `CREATE TABLE` and `ALTER TABLE` when creating a partitioned table [#56094](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56094) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

>     - Fix incorrect time type in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.RUNAWAY_WATCHES` table [#54770](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54770) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the incorrect time type in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.RUNAWAY_WATCHES` table [#54770](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54770) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
```

  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">Security</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.4/br-pitr-manual#encrypt-log-backup-data">Client-side encryption of log backup data</a> (experimental) **tw@qiancai 1920**</td>
    <td>Before uploading log backup data to your backup storage, you can encrypt the backup data to ensure its security during storage and transmission.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

### Performance

* Feature summary [#issue-number](issue-link) @[pr-auorthor-id](author-link)

    Feature descriptions (including what the feature is, why it is valuable for users, and how to use this feature generally)

    For more information, see [documentation](doc-link).

* Introduces parallel batching modes for TSO requests, reducing TSO retrieval latency [#54960](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54960) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta) **tw@qiancai** <!--1893-->

>     When requesting TSO from PD, TiDB collects multiple requests during a specific period and processes them in batches serially to decrease the number of Remote Procedure Call (RPC) requests and reduce PD workload. In latency-sensitive scenarios, however, the performance of this serial batching mode is not ideal.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    When requesting [TSO](/tso.md) from PD, TiDB collects multiple requests during a specific period and processes them in batches serially to decrease the number of Remote Procedure Call (RPC) requests and reduce PD workload. In latency-sensitive scenarios, however, the performance of this serial batching mode is not ideal.
```

    To enhance the performance of vector search, you can create and use [vector search indexes](vector-search-index.md). Note that TiDB vector search indexes rely on TiFlash. Before using vector search indexes, make sure that TiFlash nodes are deployed in your TiDB cluster.

    For more information, see [documentation](/vector-search-overview.md).

### DB operations

* BR supports client-side encryption of log backup data (experimental) [#55834](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55834) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) **tw@qiancai** <!--1920-->

     In earlier TiDB versions, only snapshot backup data can be encrypted on the client side. Starting from v8.4.0, log backup data can also be encrypted on the client side. Before uploading log backup data to your backup storage, you can encrypt the backup data to ensure its security via one of the following methods:

    - Encrypt using a custom fixed key
    - Encrypt using a master key stored on a local disk

>     - Encrypt using a master key managed by a Key Management Service (KMS)

Reviewer 8: There are many things like KMS, RAG, IMDSv2, EC2, OOM, RU, TSO, PD, RPC that might benefit from a link to glossary.md

Author: @qiancai PTAL

Reviewer 4: Yes, that's a good idea. Currently, the [Glossary](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/glossary) doc lacks explanations for many abbreviations. To improve clarity and accessibility for users, we need to consider expanding the existing glossary to include these abbreviations alongside the product-specific terms.

Reviewer 8: @qiancai Maybe you can create an issue for this with a list of what we know is missing? Then I can help to add explanations. I think this can be done after the v8.4 release.

Reviewer 4: @dveeden Thanks for your kind help. Here is the issue https://github.com/pingcap/docs/issues/19212. In this issue, I've picked some frequently used abbreviations as candidates.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-integrity-check.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.3.0 to the current version (v8.4.0). If you are upgrading from v8.2.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

* Behavior change

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`log_bin`](/system-variables.md#log_bin) | Deleted | In v8.4.0, [TiDB Binlog](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/tidb-binlog-overview) is removed. This variable indicates whether TiDB Binlog is used, and is deleted starting from v8.4.0. |

> | [`sql_log_bin`](/system-variables.md#sql_log_bin) | Deleted | In v8.4.0, [TiDB Binlog](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.3/tidb-binlog-overview) is removed. This variable indicates whether to write changes to TiDB Binlog or not, and is deleted starting from v8.4.0. |

Reviewer 8: The `log_bin` and `sql_log_bin` were used by TiDB Binlog, which has been removed. However these variables also exists in MySQL and are sometimes used by applications. I think these should have been replaced by noop variables instead to keep compatibility, but it is probably too late for that. 

Maybe document these as MySQL compatibility changes?

See also:
- https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/9.0/en/set-sql-log-bin.html
- https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/9.0/en/replication-options-binary-log.html#sysvar_log_bin

Author: @lilin90 @Benjamin2037 PTAL

Reviewer 3: I think we should better to keep those variables as noop, possibly giving warnings when trying to set them do a non-default value.
I think it was discussed [here](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/55955#discussion_r1753159629)?

| [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) | Deprecated | In v8.4.0, this variable is deprecated. Its value will be fixed to the default value `ON`, that is, [global index](/partitioned-table.md#global-indexes) is enabled by default. You only need to add the keyword `GLOBAL` to the corresponding column when executing `CREATE TABLE` or `ALTER TABLE` to create a global index. |
| [`tidb_enable_list_partition`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_list_partition-new-in-v50) | Deprecated | In v8.4.0, this variable is deprecated. Its value will be fixed to the default value `ON`, that is, [list partitioning](/partitioned-table.md#list-partitioning) is enabled by default. |
| [`tidb_enable_table_partition`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_table_partition) | Deprecated | In v8.4.0, this variable is deprecated. Its value will be fixed to the default value `ON`, that is, [table partitioning](/partitioned-table.md) is enabled by default. |

> | [`tidb_scatter_region`](/system-variables.md#tidb_scatter_region) | Modified | Originally it was boolean, only supports `ON` and `OFF`, and the Region of the newly created table only supports table level scattering after it is enabled. Starting from v8.4.0, the `SESSION` scope is added, the type is changed from boolean to enumeration, the default value is changed from `OFF` to null, and the optional values `TABLE` and `GLOBAL` are added. Supports cluster-level scattering policy to avoid the TiKV OOM issues caused by uneven distribution of regions during fast batch table creation.|

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_scatter_region`](/system-variables.md#tidb_scatter_region) | Modified | Before v8.4.0, its type is boolean, only supports `ON` and `OFF`, and the Region of the newly created table only supports table level scattering after it is enabled. Starting from v8.4.0, the `SESSION` scope is added, the type is changed from boolean to enumeration, the default value is changed from `OFF` to null, and the optional values `TABLE` and `GLOBAL` are added. In addition, it now supports cluster-level scattering policy to avoid the TiKV OOM issues caused by uneven distribution of regions during fast table creation in batches.|
```

> | [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) | Deprecated | In v8.4.0, this variable is deprecated. Its value will be fixed to the default value `ON`, that is, [global index] is enabled by default (/partitioned-table.md#global-indexes). You only need to add the keyword `GLOBAL` to the corresponding column when executing `CREATE TABLE` or `ALTER TABLE` to create a global index. |
> | [`tidb_enable_list_partition`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_list_partition-new-in-v50) | Deprecated | In v8.4.0, this variable is deprecated. Its value will be fixed to the default value `ON`, that is, [list partitioning] is enabled by default (/partitioned-table.md#list-partitioning). |
> | [`tidb_enable_table_partition`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_table_partition) | Deprecated | In v8.4.0, this variable is deprecated. Its value will be fixed to the default value `ON`, that is, [table partitioning] is enabled by default (/partitioned-table.md). |
> | [`tidb_scatter_region`](/system-variables.md#tidb_scatter_region) | Modified |  Originally it was boolean, only supports `ON` and `OFF`, and the Region of the newly created table only supports table level scattering after it is enabled. Starting from v8.4.0, the `SESSION` scope is added, the type is changed from boolean to enumeration, the default value is changed from `OFF` to null, and the optional values `TABLE` and `GLOBAL` are added. Supports cluster-level scattering policy to avoid the TiKV OOM issues caused by uneven distribution of regions during fast batch table creation.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_global_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) | Deprecated | In v8.4.0, this variable is deprecated. Its value will be fixed to the default value `ON`, that is, [global index](/partitioned-table.md#global-indexes) is enabled by default. You only need to add the keyword `GLOBAL` to the corresponding column when executing `CREATE TABLE` or `ALTER TABLE` to create a global index. |
| [`tidb_enable_list_partition`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_list_partition-new-in-v50) | Deprecated | In v8.4.0, this variable is deprecated. Its value will be fixed to the default value `ON`, that is, [list partitioning](/partitioned-table.md#list-partitioning) is enabled by default. |
| [`tidb_enable_table_partition`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_table_partition) | Deprecated | In v8.4.0, this variable is deprecated. Its value will be fixed to the default value `ON`, that is, [table partitioning](/partitioned-table.md) is enabled by default. |
| [`tidb_scatter_region`](/system-variables.md#tidb_scatter_region) | Modified | Originally it was boolean, only supports `ON` and `OFF`, and the Region of the newly created table only supports table level scattering after it is enabled. Starting from v8.4.0, the `SESSION` scope is added, the type is changed from boolean to enumeration, the default value is changed from `OFF` to null, and the optional values `TABLE` and `GLOBAL` are added. Supports cluster-level scattering policy to avoid the TiKV OOM issues caused by uneven distribution of regions during fast batch table creation.|
```

> | [`tidb_schema_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800) | Modified | Changes the default value from `0` to `536870912` (512 MiB) to indicate that the feature is enabled by default and the minimum value allowed is set to `67108864` (64 MiB). |

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_schema_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_cache_size-new-in-v800) | Modified | Changes the default value from `0` to `536870912` (512 MiB), indicating that this feature is enabled by default. The minimum value allowed is set to `67108864` (64 MiB). |
```

> | [`tidb_opt_prefer_range_scan`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_prefer_range_scan-new-in-v50) | Modified | Starting from v8.4.0, the default value of this variable is changed from `OFF` to `ON`. For tables with no statistics (pseudo-statistics) or empty tables (zero statistics), the optimiser prefers interval scans over full table scans.|

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_opt_prefer_range_scan`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_prefer_range_scan-new-in-v50) | Modified | Starting from v8.4.0, the default value of this variable is changed from `OFF` to `ON`. For tables with no statistics (pseudo-statistics) or empty tables (zero statistics), the optimizer prefers interval scans over full table scans.|
```

| [`tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_inl_join_inner_multi_pattern-new-in-v700) | Modified | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON`. Starting from v8.4.0, Index Join is supported by default when the inner table has `Selection`, `Aggregation`, or `Projection` operators on it. |
| [`tidb_analyze_partition_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_partition_concurrency) | Modified | Changes the value range from `[1, 18446744073709551615]` to `[1, 128]`. |
| [`tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_auto_analyze_concurrency-new-in-v840)| Newly added | Sets the concurrency within a single automatic statistics collection task. Before v8.4.0, this concurrency is fixed at `1`. To speed up statistics collection tasks, you can increase this concurrency based on your cluster's available resources. |
| [`tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_instance_plan_cache-new-in-v840)| Newly added | Controls whether to enable the Instance Plan Cache feature. |

> | [`tidb_instance_plan_cache_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_instance_plan_cache_max_size-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Sets the maximum memory usage for Instance Plan Cache. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_hash_join_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB uses an optimized version of the Hash Join operator. The default value of `legacy` means that the optimized version is not used. If you set it to `optimized`, TiDB uses the optimized version of the Hash Join operator when executing it to improve Hash Join performance. |
| [`tidb_instance_plan_cache_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_instance_plan_cache_max_size-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Sets the maximum memory usage for Instance Plan Cache. |
```

| [`tidb_instance_plan_cache_reserved_percentage`](/system-variables.md#tidb_instance_plan_cache_reserved_percentage-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Controls the percentage of idle memory reserved for Instance Plan Cache after memory eviction. |

> | [`tidb_hash_join_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_hash_join_version-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB uses an optimized version of the Hash Join operator. The default value of `legacy` means that the optimized version is not used. If you set it to `optimized`, TiDB uses the optimized version of the Hash Join operator when executing it to improve Hash Join performance. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| [`tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_rpc_mode-new-in-v840) | Newly added | Switches the mode in which TiDB sends TSO RPC requests to PD. The mode determines whether TSO RPC requests can be processed in parallel and affects the time spent on batch-waiting for each TS retrieval operation, thereby helping reduce the wait time for retrieving TS during the execution of queries in certain scenarios. |

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`grpc-keepalive-time`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#grpc-keepalive-time) | Modified | Adds the minimum value of `1'. |

> | TiDB | [`grpc-keepalive-timeout`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#grpc-keepalive-timeout) | Modified | This configuration file parameter was originally of INT type, and the minimum value was only supported to be set to `1`. Starting from v8.4.0, the data type is changed to FLOAT64 and the minimum value is set to `0.05`. You can decrease the value to reduce the performance impact of network jitter by reducing the retry interval in scenarios where network jitter is more frequent. |

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
| TiDB | [`grpc-keepalive-timeout`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#grpc-keepalive-timeout) | Modified | Before v8.4.0, the data type of this parameter is INT, and the minimum value is `1`. Starting from v8.4.0, the data type is changed to FLOAT64, and the minimum value becomes `0.05`. In scenarios where network jitter occurs frequently, you can reduce the impact of network jitter on performance by setting a smaller value to shorten the retry interval. |
```

    * The TiDB Lightning parameter [`conflict.max-record-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is planned for deprecation in a future release and will be subsequently removed. This parameter will be replaced by [`conflict.threshold`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task), which means that the maximum number of conflicting records is consistent with the maximum number of conflicting records that can be tolerated in a single import task.
   * Starting from v6.3.0, partitioned tables use [dynamic pruning mode](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) by default. Compared with static pruning mode, dynamic pruning mode supports features such as IndexJoin and plan cache with better performance. Therefore, static pruning mode will be deprecated.
   
## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 11 notes-->

>     - Optimize MEMDB implementation to reduce write latency in transactions and TiDB CPU usage [#55287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55287) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1892-->

Reviewer 8: I don't think MEMDB is explained anywhere in the docs

Author: @hfxsd PTAL

Reviewer: @you06 PTAL

Reviewer 11: What about 

```suggestion
    - Optimize the transaction's buffer to reduce write latency in transactions and TiDB CPU usage [#55287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55287) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1892-->
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 DML 语句中包含嵌套的生成列时报错的问题 [#53967](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53967) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue that the INTEGER data type with minimum display width in the division operation might cause the division result to overflow [#55837](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55837) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - Fix the issue that the operator that follows the TopN operator can not trigger the fallback action when the memory limit is exceeded [#56185](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56185) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - Fix the issue that the `ORDER BY` column in the Sort operator is stuck if it contains a constant [#55344](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55344) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - Fix the issue that when adding an index, the `8223 (HY000)` error occurs after killing the PD leader and the data in the table is inconsistent [#55488](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55488) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - Fix the issue that too many DDL history tasks lead to OOM when you request information about history DDL tasks [#55711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55711) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that too many DDL history tasks cause OOM when you request information about history DDL tasks [#55711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55711) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
```

>     - 修复带有最小显示宽度的 integer 数据类型参与除法时，可能导致除法结果溢出的问题 [#55837](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55837) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
>     - 修复 TopN 算子之后的算子无法在内存超限时触发数据落盘的问题 [#56185](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56185) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
>     - 修复 sort 算子中 order by 列如果包含常量列会 hang 住的问题 [#55344](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55344) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
>     - 修复在添加索引期间，kill pd leader 后出现`8223 (HY000)`错误 ，且表中的数据不一致的问题 [#55488](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55488) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复当用户请求历史 DDL 任务信息时，DDL 历史任务过多导致 OOM 的问题 [#55711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55711)) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
>     - 修复当 Region 大小超过 96M 时，全局有序 IMPORT INTO 卡住的问题 [#55374](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55374) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>     - 修复在临时表上使用 `import into` 会导致 tidb crash 的问题 [#55970](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55970) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
>     - 修复添加唯一索引意外地报告 duplicate entry 错误的问题 [#56161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56161) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复当 TiKV 停机超过 810 秒后时，Lightning 未摄取所有 KV 对导致表中数据不一致的问题 [#55808](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55808) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 修复带有最小显示宽度的 INTEGER 数据类型参与除法运算时，可能导致除法结果溢出的问题 [#55837](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55837) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - 修复 TopN 算子之后的算子无法在内存超限时触发数据落盘的问题 [#56185](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56185) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - 修复 Sort 算子中的 `ORDER BY` 列如果包含常量列会卡住的问题 [#55344](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55344) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - 修复在添加索引期间，kill pd leader 后出现 `8223 (HY000)` 错误，且表中的数据不一致的问题 [#55488](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55488) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复当用户请求历史 DDL 任务信息时，DDL 历史任务过多导致 OOM 的问题 [#55711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55711) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
    - 修复当 Region 大小超过 96M 时，启动全局排序后执行 `IMPORT INTO` 卡住的问题 [#55374](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55374) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - 修复在临时表上执行 `IMPORT INTO` 会导致 TiDB crash 的问题 [#55970](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55970) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - 修复添加唯一索引出现 duplicate entry 错误的问题 [#56161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56161) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复当 TiKV 停机超过 810 秒后时，TiDB Lightning 未摄取所有 KV 对导致表中数据不一致的问题 [#55808](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55808) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

>     - 修复了无法对 Cache Table 使用 `CREATE TABLE LIKE` 语句的问题 [#56134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56134) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
>     - 修复了 CTE 中 `FORMAT()` 表达式的警告信息混乱的问题 [#56198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/56198) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
>     - 修复了 `CREATE TABLE` 与 `ALTER TABLE` 建立分区表时对列的类型限制不一致的问题 [#56094](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56094) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
>     - 修复 `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.RUNAWAY_WATCHES` 表中时间类型不正确的问题 [#54770](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54770) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 修复无法对缓存表使用 `CREATE TABLE LIKE` 语句的问题 [#56134](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56134) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - 修复 CTE 中 `FORMAT()` 表达式的警告信息混乱的问题 [#56198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/56198) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - 修复 `CREATE TABLE` 与 `ALTER TABLE` 建立分区表时对列的类型限制不一致的问题 [#56094](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56094) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - 修复 `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.RUNAWAY_WATCHES` 表中时间类型不正确的问题 [#54770](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54770) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
```

+ TiKV

    - note [#issue](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复当主密钥存储于 KMS (Key Management Service) 时无法轮换主密钥的问题 [#17410](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17410) @[hhwyt](https://github.com/hhwyt)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复删除大表或分区后可能导致的流量控制问题 [#17304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17304) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - (dup): release-6.5.11.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复过期副本处理 Raft 快照时，由于分裂操作过慢并且随后立即删除新副本，可能导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#17469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17469) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)

+ PD

+ TiFlash <!--tw@qiancai: 2 notes-->

    - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
    - (dup): release-7.5.4.md > 错误修复 > TiFlash - 修复当表里含 Bit 类型列并且带有表示非法字符的默认值时 TiFlash 无法解析表 schema 的问题 [#9461](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9461) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

>     - 修复当多个 Region 在并发进行副本同步时，可能错误地触发 Region overlap 检查失败引起的 panic 问题 [#9329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9329) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
>     - 修复一些 TiFlash 不支持的 json 函数下推给 TiFlash 的问题 [#9444](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9444) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic due to spurious Region overlap check failures that occur when multiple Regions are concurrently applying replicas [#9329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9329) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
    - Fix the issue that some JSON functions unsupported by TiFlash are pushed down to TiFlash [#9444](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9444) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
```
